PART | 


“THE BIRTHDAY” 


] 


“Happy birthday, Haymitch!” 

The upside of being born on reaping day is that you can sleep late on 
your birthday. It’s pretty much downhill from there. A day off school hardly 
compensates for the terror of the name drawing. Even if you survive that, 
nobody feels like having cake after watching two kids being hauled off to 
the Capitol for slaughter. I roll over and pull the sheet over my head. 

“Happy birthday!” My ten-year-old brother, Sid, gives my shoulder a 
shake. “You said be your rooster. You said you wanted to get to the woods 
at daylight.” 

It’s true. I’m hoping to finish my work before the ceremony so I can 
devote the afternoon to the two things I love best — wasting time and being 
with my girl, Lenore Dove. My ma makes indulging in either of these a 
challenge, since she regularly announces that no job is too hard or dirty or 
tricky for me, and even the poorest people can scrape up a few pennies to 
dump their misery on somebody else. But given the dual occasions of the 
day, I think she'll allow for a bit of freedom as long as my work is done. It’s  the Gamemakers who might ruin my plans. 

“Haymitch!” wails Sid. “The sun’s coming up!” 


“All right, all right. I’m up, too.” I roll straight off the mattress onto 
the floor and pull on a pair of shorts made from a government- issued flour 
sack. The words COURTESY OF THE CAPITOL end up stamped across my butt. 
My ma wastes nothing. Widowed young when my pa died in a coal mine 
fire, she’s raised Sid and me by taking in laundry and making every bit of 
anything count. The hardwood ashes in the fire pit are saved for lye soap. 
Eggshells get ground up to fertilize the garden. Someday these shorts will 
be tor into strips and woven into a rug. 

I finish dressing and toss Sid back in his bed, where he burrows right 
down in the patchwork quilt. In the kitchen, I grab a piece of corn bread, an 
upgrade for my birthday instead of the gritty, dark stuff made from the 
Capitol flour. Out back, my ma’s already stirring a steaming kettle of 
clothes with a stick, her muscles straining as she flips a pair of miner’s 
overalls. She’s only thirty-five, but life’s sorrows have already cut lines into 
her face, like they do. 

Ma catches sight of me in the doorway and wipes her brow. “Happy 
sixteenth. Sauce on the stove.” 

“Thanks, Ma.” I find a saucepan of stewed plums and scoop some on 
my bread before I head out. I found these in the woods the other day, but 
it’s a nice surprise to have them all hot and sugared. 

“Need you to fill the cistern today,” Ma says as I pass. 

We’ve got cold running water, only it comes out in a thin stream that 
would take an age to fill a bucket. There’s a special barrel of pure rainwater 
she charges extra for because the clothes come out softer, but she uses our 
well water for most of the laundry. What with pumping and hauling, filling 
the cistern’s a two-hour job even with Sid’s help. 

“Can’t it wait until tomorrow?” I ask. 

“I'm running low and I’ve got a mountain of wash to do,” she 
answers. 

“This afternoon, then,” I say, trying to hide my frustration. If the 
reaping’s done by one, and assuming we’re not part of this year’s sacrifice, 
I can finish the water by three and still see Lenore Dove. 

A blanket of mist wraps protectively around the worn, gray houses of 
the Seam. It would be soothing if it wasn’t for the scattered cries of children 
being chased in their dreams. In the last few weeks, as the Fiftieth Hunger 
Games has drawn closer, these sounds have become more frequent, much 


like the anxious thoughts I work hard to keep at bay. The second Quarter 
Quell. Twice as many kids. No point in worrying, I tell myself, there’s 
nothing you can do about it. Like two Hunger Games in one. No way to 
control the outcome of the reaping or what follows it. So don’t feed the 
nightmares. Don’t let yourself panic. Don’t give the Capitol that. They’ve 
taken enough already. 

I follow the empty cinder street to the hill with the miners’ graveyard. 
A jumble of rough markers spikes the slope. Everything from headstones 
with carved names and dates to wooden boards with peeling paint. My pa’s 
buried in the family plot. A patch of Abernathys, with one limestone marker 
doing for us all. 

After a quick check for witnesses — no one’s here much, and 
certainly not at dawn — I crawl under the fence into the woods outside 
District 12 and begin the trek to the still. Brewing white liquor with Hattie 
Meeney is dicey business, but it’s a picnic compared to killing rats or 
cleaning outhouses. She expects me to work hard, but she works hard 
herself, and even though she'llnever see sixty again, she can do more than 
a person half her age. There’s a lot of grunt work involved. Collecting 
firewood, hauling grain, taking in the full bottles and toting back the 
empties to be refilled. That’s where I come in. I’m Hattie’s mule. 

I stop at what we call the depot, a bare patch of ground concealed by 
the drooping boughs of a willow tree, where Hattie drops off supplies. Two 
twenty-five-pound sacks of cracked corn await, and I swing one over each 
shoulder. 

It takes about half an hour to reach the still, where I find Hattie 
tending a pot of mash next to the remains of a small fire. 

She offers me her long-handled wooden spoon. “Why don’t you give 
this a stir?” 

I drop the bags of corn under a lean-to where we keep supplies and 
raise the spoon in victory. “Whoa, a promotion!” 

Me being allowed to handle the mash is something new. Maybe 
Hattie’s starting to train me to be a partner one day. Two of us brewing full- 
time would increase output, and there’s always more demand than she can 
meet, even for the eye-watering stuff she makes with the Capitol grain. 
Particularly for that, since it’s cheap enough for the miners to afford. The 
good stuff gets bought up by disorderly soldiers — Peacekeepers, that is — 


and the richer folk in town. But bootlegging’s illegal ten different ways, and 
all it would take is anew Head Peacekeeper — one who didn’t like a stiff 
drink himself — to land us in the stocks or worse. Mining’s tough work, but 
they don’t hang you for it. 

While Hattie packs pint bottles of white liquor into a basket lined with 
moss, I squat down and stir the mash on and off. When it’s cooled some, I 
pour it into a deep bucket and she adds the yeast. I set the mash in the lean- 
to so it can ferment. She’s not distilling today since she doesn’t want to risk 
the smoke attracting attention if the mist burns off. Our local Peacekeepers 
may turn a blind eye to Hattie’s still and her stall in the Hob, an old 
warehouse that serves as our black market, but she’s worried their Capitol 
counterparts in their low-flying, cloaked hovercraft will spot us from the air. 
No hauling in the bottles today either, so I’m tasked with chopping wood 
for the week. When the pile’s replenished, I ask what else needs doing, and 
she just shakes her head. 

Hattie’s endeared herself to me by throwing in a tip sometimes. Not 
with my wages, which she pays directly to my mother, but by slipping me a 
little something on the sly. A handful of cracked corm I can take to Lenore 
Dove for her geese, a packet of yeast I can barter with at the Hob, and today 
a pint of white liquor for my own use. She gives me her broken-toothed grin 
and says, “Happy birthday, Haymitch. I figure if you’re old enough to make 
it, you’re old enough to drink it.” 

I have to agree and, though I’m not a drinker myself, I’m glad to get 
the bottle. I can easily sell it or trade it or possibly pass it on to Lenore 
Dove’s uncle, Clerk Carmine, so that he might have a kinder opinion of me. 
You’d think the son of a washerwoman would be harmless enough, but we 
Abernathys were known rebels back in the day, and apparently we still 
carry the scent of sedition, scary and seductive in equal parts. Rumors 
spread after my father’s death, rumors that the fire had not been an accident. 
Some say he died sabotaging the mine, others that his crew was targeted by 
the Capitol bosses for being a pack of troublemakers. So it could be my 
kin’s the problem. Not that Clerk Carmine has any love for the 
Peacekeepers, but he’s not one for yanking their chain either. Or maybe he 
just doesn’t like his niece running around with a bootlegger, even if the 
work’s steady. Well, whatever the reason, he rarely gives me more than a 


terse nod, and he once told Lenore Dove that I was the kind that died 
young, which I don’t think he meant as a recommendation. 

Hattie yelps as I impulsively give her a hug. “Oh, enough of that. You 
still sparking that Covey girl?” 

“I’m sure trying,” I say, laughing. 

“Go bother her, then. You’re of no more use to me today.” She dumps 
a scoop of cracked corn into my hand and shoos me away. I pocket the corn 
and take off before she can change her mind about her best gift: unexpected 
time with my girl. I know I should probably head home and get a jump on 
filling the cistern, but I can’t resist the thought of a few stolen kisses. It’s 
my birthday and, for once, that cistern can wait. 

The mist begins to thin as I run through the woods to the Meadow. 
Most people comment on its beauty, but Lenore Dove calls it the friend of 
the condemned, because it can hide you from the Peacekeepers. She tends 
to take a dark view of things, but maybe that’s to be expected from someone 
named for a dead girl. Well, half for the dead girl called Lenore in this old 
poem and half for a shade of gray, which I found out the day I met her. 

It was the fall after ’d turned ten and the first time I’d ever snuck 
under the fence that surrounds our district. I’d been deterred by both the law 
and the threat of wild predators, which are rare but real. My friend Burdock 
had finally worn me down, saying he did it all the time and there was 
nothing to it and there were still apples if you could climb. And I could 
climb and I loved apples. Plus, him being younger than me made me feel 
like a big scaredy-cat if I didn’t. 

“Want to hear something?” Burdock asked as we ventured deep into 
the woods. He tilted back his head and sang out in that remarkable voice of 
his. High and sweet like a grown-up woman’s but cleaner, nothing warbly 
about it. Everything seemed to go still, and then the mockingjays began to 
pick it up. I knew they’d sing for other birds, but I’d never heard them sing 
for a person before. Pretty impressive stuff. Until an apple dropped smack 
on Burdock’s head, cutting him off. 

“Who’s squawking at my birds?” a girl’s voice demanded. And there 
she was, about twenty feet up, sprawled out on the branch like she lived 
there. Crooked pigtails, dirty bare feet, munching on an apple, a small 
clothbound book in her hand. 


Burdock cocked his head and laughed. “Hey, cuz. You allowed out 
here alone? ’Cause I’m sure not.” 

“Well, I didn’t see you,” she said. 

“Me you either. Toss us down some, would you?” 

In answer she stood up on her branch and began to bounce up and 
down, showering us with apples. 

“Hang on, I’ve got a sack with my bow.” Burdock ran off. She 
scooted down the branches and swung to the ground. She wasn’t one of 
Burdock’s Everdeen cousins, but I knew he had some distant ones on his 
ma’s side. I’d seen her around at school — kind of shy, I thought, but I 
didn’t know her to speak to. She didn’t seem in a rush to change that, just 
stood there looking me over until I broke the silence. 

“1’m Haymitch.” 

“1’m Lenore Dove.” 

“Dove like the bird?” 

“No. Dove like the color.” 

“What color’s that?” 

“Same as the bird.” 

That started my head spinning and I guess it’s never quite stopped. 
Soon after at school, she waved me over to a dog-eared dictionary and 
pointed. Dove color: Warm gray with a slight purplish or pinkish tint. Her 
color. Her bird. Her name. 

After that, I started to notice things about her. How her faded overalls 
and shirts concealed snips of color, a bright blue handkerchief peeking from 
her pocket, a raspberry ribbon stitched inside her cuff. How she finished up 
her lessons quick, but didn’t make a fuss about it, just stared out the 
window. Then I spotted her fingers moving, pressing down imaginary keys. 
Playing songs. Her foot slipped from her shoe, her stockinged heel keeping 
time, silent against the wood floor. Like all the Covey, music in her blood. 
But not like them, too. Less interested in pretty melodies, more in 
dangerous words. The kind that lead to rebel acts. The kind that got her 
arrested twice. She was only twelve then, and they let her go. Now it would 
be different. 

As I reach the Meadow, I slip under the fence and pause to catch my 
breath and drink in the sight of Lenore Dove perched on her favorite rock. 
The sunlight picks up the hint of red in her hair as she bends over an ancient 


piano accordion. She coaxes a melody out of the wheezy old thing, 
serenading a dozen geese grazing on the grass, her voice as soft and 
haunting as moonlight. 


They hang the man and flog the woman 
Who steals the goose from off the common, 
Yet let the greater villain loose 

That steals the common from the goose. 


It’s a treat to hear her sing, since she never does it in public. None of 
the Covey do. Her uncles are really more musicians than singers, so they 
just play tunes and leave the singing to the audience if they’re so inclined. 
Lenore Dove likes this better anyway. Says it makes her too nervous to sing 
in front of people. Her throat closes up. 

Clerk Carmine and her other uncle, Tam Amber, have raised her since 
her ma died in childbirth, seeing her pa’s always been something of a 
mystery. They’re not blood kin, her being a Baird, but the Covey look out 
for their own. They worked out a deal with the mayor, whose house boasts 
the only real piano in District 12. Lenore Dove can practice on it if she 
plays during an occasional dinner or gathering. Her in a faded green dress, 
an ivory ribbon tying back her hair, lips tinted orange. When her family 
performs around District 12 for money, she makes do with the instrument 
she is playing now, which she calls her tune box. 


The law demands that we atone 

When we take things we do not own, 

But leaves the lords and ladies fine 

Who take things that are yours and mine. 


This is not a song her uncles let her play at the mayor’s house. Or 
even when she performs around District 12. There’s the danger that some 
people might know the words and start a ruckus. Too rebellious. And I have 
to say I agree with Clerk Carmine and Tam Amber. Why go around asking 
for trouble? Plenty to be had without inviting it in. 


The poor and wretched don’t escape 


If they conspire the law to break. 
This must be so but they endure 
Those who conspire to make the law. 


I scan the Meadow. It’s secluded, but we all know there are eyes 
everywhere. And eyes generally come with a pair of ears. 


The law locks up the man or woman 

Who steals the goose from off the common. 
And geese will still a common lack 

Till they go and steal it back. 


Lenore Dove explained to me once that the common was land anyone 
could use. Sometimes the Peacekeepers chase her and the geese off the 
Meadow for no reason. She says that’s just a teaspoon of trouble in a river 
of wrong. She worries me, and I’m an Abernathy. 

A few of the geese hiss to announce my arrival. Lenore Dove’s was 
the first face they saw when they hatched, and they don’t love anyone but 
her. But since I’ve got corn, they’! tolerate me today. I toss it a ways away 
to call off her bodyguards and lean in to kiss her. Then I kiss her again. And 
again. And she kisses me right back. 

“Happy birthday,” she says when we come up for air. “Didn’t expect 
to see you until after.” 

She means the reaping, but I don’t want to talk about it. 

“Hattie let me go early,” I tell her. “Gave me this, too — a present for 
my big day.” I pull out the bottle. 

“Well, that won’t be hard to trade. Especially today.” Besides New 
Year’s, today’s when most people get drunk. “Four kids .. . That’s going to 
hit a lot of families.” 

I guess we’re going to talk about it. “It’s going to be all right,” I say, 
which rings hollow. 

“You don’t really believe that, do you?” 

“Maybe not. But I try to. Because the reaping’s going to happen no 
matter what I believe. Sure as the sun will rise tomorrow.” 

Lenore Dove frowns. “Well, there’s no proof that will happen. You 
can’t count on things happening tomorrow just because they happened in 


the past. It’s faulty logic.” 

“Ts it?” I say. “Because it’s kind of how people plan out their lives.” 

“And that’s part of our trouble. Thinking things are inevitable. Not 
believing change is possible.” 

“T guess. But I can’t really imagine the sun not rising tomorrow.” 

A crease forms between her eyebrows as she puzzles out a response. 
“Can you imagine it rising on a world without a reaping?” 

“Not on my birthday. I’ve never had one that came without a 
reaping.” 

I try to distract her with a kiss, but she’s determined to make me see. 
“No, listen,” she says earnestly. “Think about it. You’re saying, ‘Today is 
my birthday, and there’s a reaping. Last year on my birthday, there was also 
a reaping. So every year, there will be a reaping on my birthday.’ But you 
have no way of knowing that. I mean, the reaping didn’t even exist until 
fifty years ago. Give me one good reason why it should keep happening just 
because it’s your birthday.” 

For a girl who’s quiet in public, she sure can talk up a storm in 
private. Sometimes, she’s hard to keep up with. Lenore Dove is always 
patient when she explains stuff, not superior, but maybe she’s just too smart 
for me. Because while it’s a fine idea, thinking about a world with no 
reaping, I don’t really see it happening. The Capitol has all the power and 
that’s that. 

“T didn’t say it was just because it was my birthday. I said —” What 
did I say? I can’t even remember now. “Sorry, you’ve lost me.” 

Her face falls. “No, I’m sorry. It really is your birthday, and here I am 
going on about who knows what.” She digs in her pocket and holds out a 
small package wrapped in a scrap of dove-colored fabric, tied with a ribbon 
the same dappled green as her eyes. “Happy birthday. Tam Amber made it. I 
traded eggs for the metal and helped him design it.” 

Besides playing a crazy good mandolin, Tam Amber’s the best hand 
forger in District 12. He’s the go-to blacksmith for new gadgets or broken 
parts for old machines. Burdock has a dozen of his arrow tips that he treats 
like gold, and some of the richer folks in town have jewelry he made from 
actual gold or silver, melted down from heirlooms and refashioned. I can’t 
think what he’d make for me, but I eagerly untie the bow. 


The object that slips into my palm doesn’t register at once. It’s a thin 
strip of metal, shaped like a C. My fingers naturally grip the curved back as 
I examine the colorful animals facing off at the opening. The head of a 
snake hisses at the beak of a long-necked bird. I flatten out my hand and see 
that their enameled scales and feathers travel around the piece until they 
merge and become indistinguishable. Two small rings are welded on, one 
behind each head. For a chain, maybe? 

“Tt’s beautiful,” I say. “It’s to wear, right?” 

“Well, you know I like my pretty with a purpose,” Lenore Dove 
replies cryptically, making me work it out myself. 

I turn it over in my hand, then grip the C again, this time covering the 
animal heads with my fingers. Then I see its purpose. The smooth steel 
edge isn’t solely decorative. 

“It’s a flint striker,” I conclude. 

“Tt sure is! Only you don’t have to have flint. Any decent sparking 
rock like quartz will do.” 

At home, we have a beat-up old striker passed down through my ma’s 
family. Ugly and dull. On long winter nights, she made me practice with it 
until I could reliably get a fire going, so we wouldn’t have to waste money 
on matches. A penny saved is a penny earned. 

I run my finger over the fine metalwork of the feathered neck. “I 
wouldn’t want to ruin it.” 

“You won’t. That’s what it’s made for.” She touches the snake’s head, 
then the bird’s, in turn. “It takes a lot to break these two. They’re 
Survivors.” 

“T love it.” I give her a long, soft kiss. “And I love you like all-fire.” 

All-fire is Covey talk, but that expression is ours. Usually it makes her 
smile but she’s dead serious now. “You, too.” 

We kiss until I taste salt. I don’t have to ask why. 

“Look, it’s okay,” I assure her. “We’re going to be fine.” She nods but 
the tears keep trickling. “Lenore Dove, we’re going to get through today, 
just like last year and the year before, and eventually move past it.” 

“But we won’t really,” she says bitterly. “No one in Twelve will. The 
Capitol makes sure the Hunger Games is burned into our brains.” She taps 
the bottle. “Guess Hattie’s in the right business. Helping people to forget.” 


“Lenore Dove.” Clerk Carmine doesn’t holler, but he has one of those 
voices that carries without needing to. He stands at the edge of the Meadow, 
fists shoved in his patched overalls. He’s a fiddler and protective of his 
hands. “Better be getting ready.” 

“I’m coming,” she says, wiping her eyes. 

Clerk Carmine doesn’t comment on her state, just shoots me a look 
that says he holds me responsible, then turns on his heel. He never paid me 
much mind until Lenore Dove and I got serious. Since then, nothing I do 
seems right. I once told Lenore Dove I thought he just hated love. That’s 
when she revealed that he’d been together some thirty years with the fellow 
in town who replaces busted windows. They have to keep it quiet because 
loving differently can get you harassed by the Peacekeepers, fired from 
jobs, arrested even. Given his own challenges, you’d think Clerk Carmine 
would be a champion of our love — I’m certainly supportive of his — but I 
guess he thinks Lenore Dove could do better. 

She hates us to be at odds, so all I say is, “I’m definitely growing on 
him.” That gets her to laugh enough to break the mood. “I can come by 
after. Got some chores, but I should be done about three. We'll go to the 
woods, okay?” 

“We’|l go to the woods.” She confirms it with a kiss. 

Back home, I take a cold-water bucket bath and pull on the pants my 
pa got married in and a shirt my ma pieced together from handkerchiefs 
from the Capitol store where the miners shop. You have to at least try to 
look dressed up for the reaping. Turn up in raggedy clothes and the 
Peacekeepers hit you or arrest your parents because that’s not how you 
show respect for the Capitol war dead. Never mind that we had plenty of 
war dead of our own. 

Ma gives me my birthday presents: a year’s supply of flour sack 
underwear and a brand-new pocketknife, with strict instructions that the 
latter’s not to be used for mumblety-peg or any other knife games. Sid 
presents me with a piece of flint rock wrapped in a grubby bit of brown 
paper, saying, “I found it in the gravel road by the Peacekeepers’ base. 
Lenore Dove said you’d want it.” I pull out my flint striker and try it out, 
making some beautiful sparks in the process. And though Ma isn’t sold on 
Lenore Dove, given that she’s a distraction, she likes the striker enough to 
thread a leather bootlace through the metal rings and tie it around my neck. 


“Tt’s an awful fine striker,” says Sid, touching the bird wistfully. 

“How about tonight I teach you how to use it?” I suggest. 

He lights up at the promise of doing grown-up stuff combined with 
the promise that I’m not going anywhere. “Yeah?” 

“Yeah!” I ruffle his mop of hair so his curls go every which way. 

“Quit!” Sid laughs and bats my hand away. “Now I’ve got to comb it 
again!” 

“Better get on it!” I tell him. He runs off and I drop the striker down 
my collar, not ready to share it with the world, not on reaping day. 

I’ve got a few minutes to spare, so I head into town to trade. The air’s 
turned heavy and still, promising a storm. My stomach clenches at the sight 
of the square, plastered with posters and crawling with heavily armed 
Peacekeepers in their white uniforms. Lately the theme has been “No 
Peace” and the slogans bombard you from every side. NO PEACE, NO 
BREAD! NO PEACE, NO SECURITY! And, of course, NO 
PEACEKEEPERS, NO PEACE! NO CAPITOL, NO PEACE! Hanging 
behind the temporary stage in front of the Justice Building is a huge banner 
of President Snow’s face with the words PANEM’S #1 PEACEKEEPER. 

At the back of the square, Peacekeepers check in the reaping 
participants. As the line’s still short, I go ahead and get that over with. The 
woman won’t meet my eye, so I guess she’s still capable of shame. Or 
maybe it’s just indifference. 

The apothecary shop has a flag of Panem in the window, which pisses 
me off. Still, this is where I’ll get the best deal on my white liquor. Inside, 
the sharp odor of chemicals makes my nose twitch. In contrast, a faint, 
Sweet scent comes from a bunch of chamomile flowers resting in a jar, 
waiting to become tea and medicine. I know Burdock collected these in the 
woods. Of late, he’s added wildcrafting to his game business. 

The place is deserted except for my classmate Asterid March, who’s 
arranging tiny bottles on a shelf behind the counter. A long blond braid falls 
down her back, but the damp heat has brought out tendrils of hair that frame 
her perfect face. Asterid’s the town beauty and rich by District 12 standards. 
I used to hold that against her, but she showed up one night in the Seam, 
alone, to treat a neighbor woman who’d been whipped for back-talking a 
Peacekeeper. She brought some ointment she’d concocted herself, then 
slipped away, never mentioning payment. Since then, she’s who people turn 


to for help when a loved one goes under the lash. I guess Asterid has more 
substance than her pack of snooty town friends suggests. Besides, 
Burdock’s nuts about her, so I try to be nice even though he’s got about as 
much chance with her as a mockingjay with a swan. Town girls don’t marry 
Seam boys, not unless something really goes haywire. 

“Hey. You got any use for this?” I place the white liquor on the 
counter. “For cough syrup or some such?” 

“I’m sure I can find one.” Asterid gives me a fair price and throws in 
a sprig of chamomile. “For today. They say it’s good luck.” 

I slide the stem into a buttonhole. “Who says? Burdock?” 

She blushes a bit, and I wonder if I’m wrong about his chances. 
“Maybe it was him. I can’t recall.” 

“Well, we could all use a little luck today.” I glance at the flag in the 
window. 

Asterid drops her voice. “We didn’t want it there. The Peacekeepers 
insisted.” 

Or they’d what? Arrest the Marches? Bust up their shop? Close them 
down for good? I feel bad I judged them earlier. 

“No choice, then.” I nod to the chamomile. “You wear some, too, 
okay?” She gives me a sad smile and nods. 

I go next door to the Donners’ sweetshop and buy a little white paper 
bag of multicolored gumdrops — Lenore Dove’s favorite — for us to share 
later. She calls them rainbow gumdrops and swears she can tell the flavors 
apart, although they all taste exactly the same. Merrilee Donner, who’s in 
my class, waits on me in a crisp pink dress and matching ribbons in her 
sandy hair. No one’s going to arrest the Donners for looking shabby. 
Fortunately, Asterid paid me in cash, because the Donners won’t take scrip, 
which is what the Capitol pays the miners with. It’s technically only good in 
the Capitol store, but a lot of the merchants in town take it and my ma gets 
plenty of it in the laundry business. 

When I step outside, I smile for a second at the Donners’ pretty candy 
label, thinking of meeting Lenore Dove in the woods. Then I see that it’s 
time. The giant screens flanking the stage have lit up with the waving flag 
in honor of the Hunger Games. Fifty-some years ago, the districts rose up 
against our Capitol’s oppression, kicking off a bloody civil war in Panem. 


We lost, and in punishment every July 4th, each of the districts routinely 
has to send two tributes, one girl and one boy between the ages of twelve 
and eighteen, to fight to the death in an arena. The last kid standing gets 
crowned as the victor. 

The reaping is where they draw our names for the Hunger Games. 
Two pens, one for the girls and one for the boys, have been clearly marked 
out with orange ropes. Traditionally, the twelve-year-olds gather in the front 
and the kids get older until you reach the eighteen-year-olds in the back. 
Attendance for the entire population is mandatory, but I know my ma will 
keep Sid at home until the last possible minute, so I don’t bother looking for 
them. Since Lenore Dove’s nowhere to be seen, I head to the section 
designated for fourteen-to-sixteen-year-old boys, thinking about my odds. 

Today I have twenty slips of paper with my name in the reaping. 
Every kid automatically gets one each year, but I have an additional three 
because I always take on three tesserae to feed myself and my family 
members. A tessera gets you a ration of tinned oil and a sack of flour 
marked COURTESY OF THE CAPITOL for one person, collectible each month at 
the Justice Building. In exchange, you have to put your name in the reaping 
an extra time for each tessera that year. Those entries stick with you and add 
up. Four slips a year times five years — that’s how I have twenty. But to 
make things worse, since this year’s the second Quarter Quell, marking the 
fiftieth anniversary of the Hunger Games, each district has to send twice the 
usual number of kids. I figure, for me, it’s like having forty slips on a 
regular year. And I don’t like those odds. 

The crowd thickens but I can see one of the twelve-year-olds up front 
trying to hide that he’s crying. In two years, Sid will be there. I wonder 
whether it’ll be me or Ma who sits him down beforehand and explains 
about his role in the reaping. How he has to look nice and keep his mouth 
shut and not cause any trouble. Even if the unthinkable happens and his 
name gets drawn, he’s got to suck it up, put on the bravest face he can 
muster,and climb onto that stage because resistance is not an option. The 
Peacekeepers will drag him up there kicking and screaming if they have to, 
so he should try to go with some dignity. And always remember, whatever 
happens, his family will love him and be proud of him forever. 

And if Sid should ask, “But why do I have to do this?” 


We can only say, “Because this is the way things are.” 

Lenore Dove would hate that last bit. But it’s the truth. 

“Happy birthday.” Someone bumps my shoulder and there’s Burdock, 
in a frayed suit, and our friend Blair, who’s inherited a dress shirt three sizes 
too big from his older brother. 

Blair smacks a pack of roasted peanuts from the Capitol store against 
my chest. “And may all your wishes come true.” 

“Thanks.” I pocket the nuts and my gumdrops. “You two didn’t have 
to dress up for me.” 

“Well, we wanted your day to be special,” says Blair. “What kind of 
idiot gets born on reaping day anyway?” 

“The kind that likes a challenge,” says Burdock with appreciation. 

“Just playing the hand I was dealt. But you know what they say, 
unlucky at cards, lucky in love.” I arrange my chamomile. “Hey, look what 
your girlfriend gave me, Burdie.” 

Our attention shifts to the girls’ pen, where Asterid stands talking with 
Merrilee and her identical twin sister, Maysilee, who’s the most stuck-up 
girl in town. 

“Her friends know about you, Everdeen?” asks Blair. 

“Nothing to know,” says Burdock with a grin. “Well, not yet anyway.” 

The sound system crackles to life, sobering us up. Just then, I see 
Lenore Dove sidestep a Peacekeeper and squeeze into the pen. She’s 
looking fine in a ruffly apple-red dress she sometimes performs in, her hair 
pulled up with metal combs Tam Amber made her. Fine and grim. 

A recording of the anthem blares over the square, rattling my teeth. 


Gem of Panem, 
Mighty city, 


We’re supposed to sing along but instead we mumble whatever. Just 
keep our lips moving at the right time. The screens project images of the 
Capitol’s power: armies of marching Peacekeepers, airborne fleets of 
hovercraft, tanks parading through the wide avenues of the Capitol, up to 
the presidential mansion. Everything is clean and expensive and deadly. 

When the anthem ends, Mayor Allister takes the podium and reads the 
Treaty of Treason, which is basically the surrender terms for the war. Most 


of the people in District 12 weren’t even alive then, but we’re sure here to 
pay the price. The mayor tries for a neutral tone, but her voice leaks 
disapproval in a way that guarantees she’|l be replaced soon. The decent 
mayors always are. 

Next, fresh from the Capitol, comes Drusilla Sickle, a plastic-faced 
woman who escorts our tributes to the Hunger Games each year. I have no 
idea how old Drusilla is, but she’s been showing up in District 12 since the 
first Quarter Quell. Maybe she’s around Hattie’s age? It’s hard to tell 
because she has a line of what look like fancy thumbtacks encircling her 
face, pulling her skin back and pinning it in place. Last year, each one was 
decorated with a tiny buzz saw blade. This year, the number 50 seems to be 
the theme. As for clothes, she clearly struggled to incorporate two fashion 
trends, military and sassy, and the result is her current outfit, a lemon- 
yellow officer’s jacket with matching thigh-high boots and a tall hat with a 
visor brim. Feathers fan out from the top of the hat, making her look like a 
deranged daffodil. No one laughs, though, because here she’s the face of 
evil. 

Two Peacekeepers set giant glass balls holding the tribute entries on 
either side of the podium. “Ladies first,” says Drusilla, dipping her hand 
into the ball on the right and extracting a single slip of paper. “And the 
lucky girl is...” She pauses for effect, twirling the name in her fingers, 
smirking before driving in the knife. “Louella McCoy!” 

I feel sick. Louella McCoy lives three houses down from me, and a 
smarter, spunkier thirteen-year-old doesn’t exist. An angry murmur ripples 
across the crowd, and I can feel Blair and Burdock tensing up beside me as 
Louella climbs the steps onto the stage, flipping her black pigtails over her 
shoulders and scowling hard as she tries to look tough. 

“And this year, ladies second as well! Joining Louella will be...” 
Drusilla’s hand stirs the slips in the ball and fishes out another name. 
“Maysilee Donner!” 

My eyes find Lenore Dove’s, and all I can think is, It’s not you. At 
least, not for another year. You’re safe. 

The crowd’s reacting again, but more in surprise than anger, because 
Maysilee is a purebred town girl and about as highfalutin as they come, 
what with the Donners being merchants and the general consensus being 


that her pa will be tapped to succeed Mayor Allister. Town kids are rarely 
tributes because they don’t generally have tesserae like those in the Seam. 

In the girls’ pen, Maysilee’s gripping Asterid’s hand while a weeping 
Merrilee embraces her, their three blond heads pressed in a tight knot. Then 
Maysilee carefully disengages herself and smooths her dress, which is 
identical to her twin’s pink one, only a shade of lavender. She pretty much 
always has her nose in the air, but she holds it extra high as she walks to the 
stage. 

Now it’s the boys’ turn. I brace myself, preparing for the worst, as 
Drusilla plucks a paper from the ball on the left. “And the first gentleman 
who gets to accompany the ladies is .. . Wyatt Callow!” 

I haven’t seen Wyatt Callow around school for a while, which 
probably means he hit eighteen and started in the mines. I don’t really know 
him. He lives on the other side of the Seam and keeps his head down. I hate 
myself for the relief I feel watching him approach the stage, his measured 
steps and vacant expression revealing nothing. I feel bad for him, too. Wyatt 
has to be closing in on his nineteenth birthday, a big deal in the districts 
because that’s when you age out of the reaping. 

As Drusilla’s hand dives back into the ball, it seems too much to hope 
that both Lenore Dove and I will escape this terror. That in a few hours, 
we’ ll be far away from the square, locked in each other’s arms in the cool 
shade of the woods. I suck in my breath, preparing for my death sentence. 

Drusilla peers at the final name. “And boy number two is... 
Woodbine Chance!” 

An involuntary huff escapes my lips, echoed by several boys around 
me. Lenore Dove looks over, tries to smile, but can’t help shifting her 
attention to the latest victim. 

Woodbine’s the youngest and handsomest of those crazy Chance 
boys. They all get so wild when they drink that Hattie won’t sell them white 
liquor for fear it will bring down the Peacekeepers, so they have to buy it 
from old Bascom Pie, who has no scruples and sells rotgut to anyone with 
enough coin. If the Abernathys give off a whiff of sedition, the Chances 
reek of it, and they’ve lost more family members to the rope than I can keep 
track of. Rumor has it, Lenore Dove might be related to them on her pa’s 
side. They seem awfully fond of her, even if it’s not official. One way or 
another, there’s a connection there that Clerk Carmine discourages. 


I can see Woodbine, who’s a few rows ahead of me, projected up on 
the screen. He makes as if to follow Wyatt, but then his gray eyes flash 
defiantly and he whips around and sprints for an alley. His kinfolk shout 
encouragement and bodies instinctively block the Peacekeepers. Just when 
I’m thinking he might make it — all those Chance kids run like greased 
lightning — a shot rings out from the Justice Building rooftop, and the back 
of Woodbine’s head explodes. 


“J 


The screens go dark for a second and then the flag reappears. 
Obviously, they don’t want the rest of the country to witness the disorder 
here in District 12. 

The square erupts as some people make for the side streets and some 
rush to help Woodbine, even though he’s long past helping. The 
Peacekeepers keep firing, mostly as a warning but hitting a few 
unfortunates at the edge of the crowd. I don’t know which way to go. Do I 
find Sid and Ma? Get Lenore Dove off the square? Just run for cover? 

“Who did this? Who did this?” demands Drusilla. 

A bewildered young Peacekeeper gets pushed to the edge of the roof 
of the Justice Building. 

“You imbecile!” Drusilla berates him from below. “You couldn’t wait 
until he was in the alley? Look at this mess!” 

It’s a mess all right. I catch sight of Ma and Sid at the edge of the 
crowd and take a step their way when a rough male voice booms over the 
sound system. 

“On the ground! On the ground, everybody! Now!” Automatically, I 
fall on my knees and assume the position — hands linked behind my neck, 
forehead pressed to the sooty bricks of the square. Out of the corner of my 


eye, I see almost everybody around me follow suit, but Otho Mellark, a big 
lug of a guy whose folks own the bakery, seems bewildered. His meaty 
hands dangle loosely at his sides and his feet shuffle back and forth, and 
then I notice his blond hair’s splattered with someone’s blood. Burdock 
punches him hard in the back of his knee and it’s enough to get him down 
on the ground and out of the line of fire. 

Drusilla’s hot mic bounces her voice around the square as she screams 
at her team, “We’ve got five minutes! A five-minute delay and then we’ll 
have to finish this live! Get rid of the bloody ones!” 

For the first time, I understand that when they show the reaping live, 
it isn’t really live. There must be a five-minute hold on the broadcast in case 
something like this happens. 

Peacekeepers’ boots tramp through the audience as the soldiers grab 
anyone marked with gore, including Otho, and push them into the nearby 
shops to conceal them. 

“We need another boy! That dead one’s no good!” says Drusilla, 
clunking down the steps into the square. 

There’s a high-pitched keening followed by Peacekeepers barking 
orders. Then I hear Lenore Dove’s voice, and my head shoots up like I don’t 
control it. She’s trying to help Woodbine’s ma, who’s latched on to his hand 
as a pair of Peacekeepers attempts to carry him away. Lenore Dove’s 
tugging on one of the soldier’s arms, begging them to please let his ma have 
him, just let her see him for one minute. But they don’t seem to have a 
minute. 

This will not end well. Should I get in there? Pull Lenore Dove away? 
Or will I only make the situation worse? I feel like my knees are glued to 
the ground. 

“What’s the problem there?” I hear Drusilla say. “Get that body off 
the square!” A squad of four more Peacekeepers heads over. 

Having Woodbine referred to as a “body” sets his ma off. She begins 
to shriek, flinging her arms around his chest, trying to pull her son away 
from the soldiers. Lenore Dove joins her, grabbing hold of Woodbine’s legs 
to help free him. 

Ma’s going to lay into me for intervening, but I just can’t grovel on 
the ground while Lenore Dove’s in danger. I push myself up and run toward 


her, hoping to get her to let Woodbine loose. I spy one of the incoming 
Peacekeepers raising his rifle to knock her out. 

“Stop!” I leap in to shield her, just in time to intercept the rifle butt 
that slams against my temple. Pain explodes in my head as jagged lights cut 
through my vision. I don’t even make it to the ground before iron hands 
lock on my upper arms and haul me forward, my nose inches from the 
bricks. I’m dropped flat on my face before a pair of yellow boots. The tip of 
one lifts my chin before letting it bang back on the ground. 

“Well, I think we’ve just found our replacement.” 

Lenore Dove’s behind me, pleading. “Don’t take him — it wasn’t his 
fault! It was mine! Punish me!” 

“Oh, just shoot that girl, would you?” says Drusilla. A nearby 
Peacekeeper trains his rifle on Lenore Dove, and Drusilla snorts in 
exasperation. “Not here! We’ve got enough blood to clean up. Find a 
discreet location, can’t you?” 

As the soldier takes a step toward Lenore Dove, a guy in a violet 
jumpsuit appears, laying a hand on his elbow. “Hold it. If I could, Drusilla, 
I’d love to keep her for the tearful good-bye. The audience eats that stuff up 
and, as you always remind us, it’s a challenge to get them to even notice 
Twelve.” 

“Fine, Plutarch. Whatever. Just get the rest of them up. Up! On your 
feet, you district pigs!” As they lift me, I notice Drusilla has a riding crop 
clipped to the side of one boot and wonder if it’s just decorative. Her dead- 
fish breath hits my face. “Play this right or I’ll shoot you myself.” 

“Haymitch!” I hear Lenore Dove cry. 

I start to respond but Drusilla clamps on to my face with her long 
fingers. “And she can watch.” 

Plutarch gestures to one of the crew. “Get a camera on that girl, would 
you, Cassia?” He pursues Drusilla. “You know, we’ve got footage of the 
Peacekeepers controlling the crowd. It could be an opportunity to hit the 
‘No Peacekeeper, No Peace’ angle.” 

“T don’t have time, Plutarch! I barely have time to pull off the status 
quo! Get the first boy. ... What was his name?” 

“Wyatt Callow,” says Plutarch. 

“Get Wyatt Callow back in the pen.” Drusilla smacks her forehead. 
“No!” She thinks a moment. “Yes! [’Il call them both. It will be smoother.” 


“Tt will cost you another thirty seconds.” 

“Then let’s get going.” She points at me. “What’s your name?” 

My name sounds alien as it leaves my lips. “Haymitch Abernathy.” 

“Haymitch Abernanny,” she repeats. 

“Haymitch Abernathy,” I correct her. 

She turns to Plutarch in vexation. “It’s too long!” He scribbles on his 
clipboard pad and rips off a strip of paper. She takes it and reads, “Wyatt 
Callow and Haymitch... Aber... nathy. Wyatt Callow and Haymitch 
Abernathy.” 

“Why you’re the professional,” Plutarch says. “Better take your place. 
Pll position him.” As Drusilla hurries up the steps, he takes my elbow and 
whispers, “Don’t be stupid, kid. She’ ll kill you with a snap if you mess up 
again.” 

I don’t know if he means with a snap of her fingers or some extra- 
horrible snappy way to die. Either way, I don’t want to die with a snap. 

Plutarch leads me to a spot closer to the stage. “This’ll do. Just stay 
here, and when Drusilla calls your name, you calmly walk up onstage. 
Okay?” 

I try to nod. My head throbs and my thoughts tumble around like 
rocks in a tin can. What just happened? What’s happening now? 
Somewhere inside me, I know. I’m a tribute in the Hunger Games. In a few 
days, I’ll die in the arena. I know all this, but it’s like it’s happening to 
someone else while I watch from a distance. 

The remaining members of the audience have regained their feet but 
not their composure. People whisper urgently to their neighbors, trying to 
figure out what’s going on. 

“Live in thirty,” someone says over the speakers. “Twenty-nine, 
twenty-eight, twenty-seven . . .” 

“Shut up!” Drusilla yells at the crowd as a makeup person puffs some 
powder on her sweaty face. “Shut up or we’ll kill every last one of you!” As 
if to emphasize this, a Peacekeeper next to her fires a spray of bullets into 
the air, and a hovercraft passes right over the square. 

It gets quiet fast and I can hear my blood pounding in my ears. I have 
an impulse to flee, like Woodbine did, but remember the look of his brains 
hanging out of his skull. 

“... ten, nine, eight...” 


Everyone onstage has returned to their pre-shooting places: Louella 
and Maysilee, the Peacekeepers, and Drusilla, who quickly tears the paper 
Plutarch gave her in two and positions the slips on the pile in the glass ball. 

I reach for Burdock and Blair to steady myself, but, of course, they’re 
not there. Just a couple of younger kids who are giving me plenty of room. 

“',. three, two, one, and we’re live.” 

Drusilla pretends to draw a name. “And the first gentleman who gets 
to accompany the ladies is . .. Wyatt Callow!” 

In some strange replay, I watch Wyatt, as impassive as before, go by 
and obediently take his place on the stage. 

Drusilla’s hand hovers over the ball, then removes a slip with surgical 
precision. “And our second boy will be... Haymitch Abernathy!” I just 
stand there in case this is a bad dream and I’m about to wake up in my own 
bed. Everything’s all wrong. Minutes ago, I dodged this bullet. I was 
headed home, then to the woods, safe for another year. 

“Haymitch?” Drusilla repeats, looking straight at me. 

My face fills the screen over the stage. My feet begin to move. I see 
them cut to Lenore Dove, who has a hand pressed against her mouth. She 
isn’t crying, so Plutarch won’t get his tearful good-bye. Not from her and 
not from me. They will not use our tears for their entertainment. 

“Ladies and gentlemen, join me in welcoming the District Twelve 
tributes of the Fiftieth Hunger Games!” Drusilla acknowledges us. “And 
may the odds be EVER in your favor!” She begins to clap and I hear a huge 
audience response over the speakers, although I can only see a handful of 
people applauding in 12. 

I locate Lenore Dove in the crowd and we lock eyes, desperation 
setting in. For a moment, everything else peels away and there’s only us. 
She lowers her hand and presses it to her heart as her lips form the words 
silently. I love you like all-fire. I mouth back, You, too. 

Cannons break the spell. Confetti showers down on me, on the stage, 
on the whole square. I lose sight of her in the fluttering bits of bright paper. 

Drusilla spreads her arms wide. “Happy second Quarter Quell, 
everybody!” 

“And we’re out,” says the voice on the speaker. 

The broadcast has moved on to the District 11 reaping. The canned 
applause cuts off and Drusilla lets out a groan, dramatically slumping 


against the podium. 

The Capitol TV crew gives a loud cheer as Plutarch appears from the 
side of the stage, shouting, “Brilliant! Bravo, everybody! Absolutely 
seamless, Drusilla!” 

Drusilla recovers and yanks off her daffodil hat by the chin strap. “I 
have no idea how I just did that.” She pulls a pack of cigarettes from her 
boot and lights up, exhaling the smoke through her nose like it’s a chimney. 
“Well, it’s a great story for dinner parties!” 

One of the assistants appears with a tray of glasses filled with a pale 
liquid. He accidentally offers one to me — “Champagne?” — before he 
realizes his mistake. “Whoops! None for the children!” 

Drusilla grabs a glass and notices the people of District 12 standing 
mute and miserable while the last bits of confetti drift down on them. “Well, 
what are they staring at? Filthy beasts. Go home! All of you!” She 
addresses a Peacekeeper. “Get them out of here before their smell gets in 
my hair.” She sniffs a lock of her hair and grimaces. “Too late.” 

The Peacekeeper gives a signal and the soldiers begin pushing the 
crowd back. While I see Burdock and Blair put up a struggle, most people 
rush to the side streets, only too happy to escape the ordeal of the reaping, 
to hurry home, embrace their children, and, for those who patronize Hattie’s 
stall, get good and drunk. 

I’m panicked by the sight of a District 12 Peacekeeper restraining 
Lenore Dove. Why didn’t I step in sooner? Why did I wait until I had no 
choice but to defy that soldier? Was I feeling afraid? Confused? Or just 
powerless in the face of those white uniforms? Now we’re both doomed. 
The Peacekeeper’s bringing out cuffs when Clerk Carmine and Tam Amber 
swoop in. They talk to him fast and low, and I think some money changes 
hands. To my relief, the Peacekeeper glances around, releases her, and 
walks off. Lenore Dove makes for me, but her uncles hustle her down a side 
street. 

The other luckless loved ones of this year’s tributes remain behind. 

Mr. Donner runs up on the stage with a fistful of cash, hoping to 
somehow bail Maysilee out, while his wife and Merrilee huddle near their 
storefront. “Don’t, Papa!” Maysilee cries, but her father keeps waving the 
money in people’s faces. 


There’s a family I judge to be the Callows, where a woman weeps 
hysterically and the menfolk have come to blows. “You jinxed him!” one 
accuses another. “This is on you!” 

Our neighbors, the McCoys, have their arms wrapped around Ma, 
who’s barely able to stand. Sid’s hanging on her hand, pulling her forward, 
as he hollers, “Haymitch! Haymitch!” I’m already so homesick I could die. 
I know I need to be strong, but the sight of them totals me. How will they 
manage without me? 

What’s supposed to happen next is that the tributes go into the Justice 
Building for a final farewell to their families and friends. I’ve done this 
once before. My ma and pa took me when Sarshee Whitcomb, the daughter 
of Pa’s old crew boss, got reaped. She’d been orphaned that year when her 
pa, Lyle, died of black lung. Ma told the Peacekeepers we were kin and they 
took us to a sitting room with a lot of scratchy furniture that needed dusting. 
I think we were her only visitors. 

I know I should wait for the official good-bye time, but the only thing 
that matters now is to hug Ma and Sid. With Mr. Donner and Maysilee 
making a ruckus, I get to the edge of the stage, crouch down, and reach for 
them as they run to me. 

“None of that!” I’m yanked backward by a Peacekeeper as Drusilla 
continues. “No good-byes for these people. They’ve lost that privilege after 
that outrageous display today. Take them straight to the train, and let’s get 
out of this stinkhole.” 

A pair of Peacekeepers tosses Mr. Donner off the stage. Midair, he 
loses his grip on his money, which floats down and mingles with the 
confetti on the ground. Then they pull out handcuffs. 

Louella’s been holding it together, but now she looks at me, her eyes 
wide with fright. I lay my hand on her shoulder to steady her, but as the 
cold metal touches her skin, she lets out a small squeak, like a baby animal 
in a trap. At the sound, the families surge forward, desperate to reclaim us. 

The Peacekeepers hold them back as Plutarch speaks up. “I don’t 
mean to be a pain, Drusilla, but I’m really low on reaction shots for the 
recap. Could I just snag a few?” 

“Tf you must. But if you’re not on the train in fifteen, you can walk 
home,” says Drusilla. 


“T owe you.” Plutarch does a quick assessment of our families and 
points to me and Louella. “Leave me this and this.” 

The Peacekeepers steer Maysilee and Wyatt into the Justice Building, 
beating back their relatives with batons when they try to follow. Somehow, 
Merrilee slips by them, and for a moment the Donner twins become one, 
arms locked around each other’s necks, foreheads, noses pressed together. 
A mirror image that the Peacekeepers tear in two. I see Wyatt give a final 
look to the hysterical Callow woman before marching through the door. 

Louella and I rush for our folks, but Plutarch intervenes. “Let’s get the 
footage.” 

The crew sweeps an area in front of the shops clear of confetti. A 
cameraman positions himself while Plutarch poses Louella’s parents and 
her half dozen brothers and sisters in front of the bakery. “Wait, if you were 
in the reaping, get out of the picture.” Two of the kids move out of range of 
the camera. “Good,” he says. “Very nice. Now, what I need you to do is to 
react exactly the way you did when you heard them call Louella’s name. In 
three, two, one, action.” 

The McCoy family stares at him numbly. 

“And cut!” Plutarch crosses to the McCoys. “Sorry. Obviously, I 
wasn’t clear. When you heard them call Louella, it was a big shock, right? 
‘Oh, no!’ Maybe you gasped or cried out her name. Anyway, you did 
something. And now I need you to do the same thing for the camera. 
Okay?” He backs up. “So, in three, two, one, action!” 

If anything, the McCoys are more stony-faced than before. It’s not 
confusion; it’s a blanket refusal to put on a show for the Capitol. 

“Cut.” Plutarch rubs his eye and sighs. “Take the girl to the train.” 

Peacekeepers whisk Louella into the Justice Building as the McCoys 
finally crack, crying out her name in anguish. Plutarch motions to the crew 
to film their reaction. When the McCoys realize he got their distress on 
tape, they’re infuriated, but the Peacekeepers just muscle them off the 
square. 

Plutarch turns to Ma and Sid. “Listen, I know this isn’t easy, but I 
think we can help each other out. If I can get a usable reaction shot from 
you, I can give you a minute with Haymitch. We clear?” 

I see Sid’s eyes flicker skyward as there’s a low rumble of thunder, 
which feels like a warning. I look at my ma’s pale face, my brother’s 


trembling lips. The words spill out of my mouth unbidden. “Don’t do it, 
Ma.” 

But Ma overrules me and addresses Plutarch. “No, I'll do it. We’ Il 
both do it, if you let us hold him one more time.” 

“Deal.” Plutarch positions them side by side, but Ma moves behind 
Sid and wraps her arms around him. “Nice. I like it. Okay, so it’s the middle 
of the reaping, Drusilla is picking the boys. She’s just said, ‘Haymitch 
Abernathy.’ And three, two, one, action.” 

Ma gasps and Sid, confused, as no doubt he was at the time, cranes 
his head around to look at her. 

“Cut! That was terrific. Can we try it once more, and this time, maybe 
make the gasp a little louder? Okay, in three, two, one...” 

But it isn’t once. Plutarch keeps calling for more dramatic 
responses — “Call out his name!” “Hide your face in her dress!” “Can you 
break into tears?” — until Sid’s crying for real and my ma looks ready to 
pass out. 

“Stop it!” I burst out. “That’s enough! You’ve got enough!” 

The walkie-talkie on his belt crackles and I hear Drusilla’s impatient 
voice. “Where are you, Plutarch?” 

“Just wrapping up. There in five.” Plutarch waves Ma and Sid in my 
direction and they rush into my arms. “You’ve got two minutes.” 

I crush them against me for what I know is the last time. But time’s a- 
wasting and we are not a wasteful family. “Take this.” I empty the contents 
of my pockets into their hands, money and peanuts into Ma’s, knife and the 
white sack of gumdrops into Sid’s. Bequeathing them the remains of my life 
in 12. 

Sid raises the gumdrops. “For Lenore Dove?” 

“Yeah, you see she gets them, okay?” I say. 

Sid’s voice is hoarse with tears, but determined. “She’|l get them.” 

“T know she will. Because I can always depend on you.” I kneel in 
front of my little brother and hold out my sleeve like I did when he was 
tiny, so he can wipe his nose on it. “You’re the man of the house now. If 
you were some other kid, I’d be worried, but I know you can handle it.” Sid 
starts to shake his head. “You’re twice as smart as me and ten times as 
brave. You can do this. Okay? Okay?” He nods and I muss his hair. Then I 
rise and hug my mother. “You can, too, Ma.” 


“T love you, son,” she whispers. 

“T love you, too,” I say. 

Through the static of Plutarch’s walkie-talkie, I hear Drusilla’s 
impatient voice. “Plutarch! Don’t think I won’t leave without you!” 

“Got to go, people,” Plutarch says. “Drusilla waits for no man.” 

The Peacekeepers move in to separate us, but Ma and Sid hold tight. 

“You remember what your pa said to the Whitcomb child?” Ma says 
urgently. “It still goes.” 

I flash back to the Justice Building, and the weeping girl and the 
sickly scent of decomposing flowers that pervaded the place. Pa is talking 
to Sarshee, and he’s telling her, “Don't let them use you, Sarshee. Don’t —’ 

“Plutarch!” screeches Drusilla. “Plutarch Heavensbee!” 

Peacekeepers rip us apart. I’m lifted off my feet as Sid begs, “Please 
don’t take my brother! Please don’t take him. We need him!” 

I can’t help it, I should be a good example, but I struggle to get free. 
“Tt’s okay, Sid! It’s going to be —” A jolt of electricity racks my body and I 
go limp. I can track the heels of my boots bouncing up the stairs, over the 
carpets of the Justice Building, through the gravel on the drive behind it. In 
the car, I let them cuff me without objecting. My brain’s fuzzy, but I know I 
don’t want to be zapped again. Wobbly-legged, I climb the metal steps to 
the train, where I’m tossed into some compartment with a single, barred 
window. I press my face against the glass, but there’s nothing to see but a 
grimy coal car. 

For all Drusilla’s whining, we go nowhere for an hour. The sky 
blackens and the storm breaks. Hail clatters against my window, followed 
by sheets of rain. By the time the wheels of the train begin to turn, my head 
has cleared. I try to memorize every fleeting image of 12 — the lightning 
illuminating the dingy warehouses, the water streaming down the slag 
heaps, and the glow of the green hills. 

That’s when I see Lenore Dove. She’s up on a ridge, her red dress 
plastered to her body, one hand clutching the bag of gumdrops. As the train 
passes, she tilts her head back and wails her loss and rage into the wind. 
And even though it guts me, even though I smash my fists into the glass 
until they bruise, I’m grateful for her final gift. That she’s denied Plutarch 
the chance to broadcast our farewell. 

The moment our hearts shattered? It belongs to us. 


BJ 


> 


After a while, I slide down the wall, cradling my swollen hands, 
panting. Pain stabs my chest, and I wonder if a person’s heart can really 
break. Probably. The word brokenhearted had to come from somewhere. I 
imagine my heart busted into a dozen glassy red pieces, their hard, jagged 
edges stabbing into my flesh at every beat. It may not be scientific, but it 
matches what I feel. Part of me thinks I will die right now, bleeding out on 
the inside. But it isn’t going to be that simple. Eventually, my breathing 
slows, and a general despair descends. 

I will never see Lenore Dove again. Never hear her laugh coming 
from high above me in the branches. Never feel the warmth of her in my 
arms as we lay on a bed of pine needles, my lips pressed into the hollow of 
her neck. Never pull a stray goose feather from her hair, or listen to her play 
her tune box, or press my finger into the crease that forms between her 
eyebrows when she’s puzzling out a thought. Never see her face brighten at 
a bag of gumdrops or a full moon or the sound of me whispering, “I love 
you like all-fire.” 

It’s all been taken away. My love, my home, my ma, my sweet little 
brother . .. why did I tell him he’s the man of the house now? That wasn’t 
fair. It’s too much for someone so young and hopeful to shoulder. My 


Mmamaw on Pa’s side used to say Sid was born looking on the sunny side. I 
think he’s missed a lot of trouble down here on earth, because he’s always 
studying the sky. He’s fascinated by the sun, the clouds, the bodies that 
come out at night. Tam Amber taught Lenore Dove about the stars, as the 
Covey used to navigate by them long ago, and she taught Sid. On a clear 
night, he drags us all outside to see the pictures they make. “There’s the 
water dipper, just like ours in the bucket. That over there’s the bowhunter. 
He looks like Burdock, don’t you think? That one’s a swan, but Lenore 
Dove says she calls it a goose. And that’s yours, Ma. See the W? That’s 
yours. W for your name, Willamae, and flipped around it’s an M for Ma!” 

And Ma always looks pleased, because when does she get anything 
nice, let alone something so fine as her own set of stars? It’s all about her 
giving things to us. I pretended not to see her bring in a chicken last night 
that I’m sure she planned to fry for my birthday. Probably took on extra 
wash to afford it. Will she be able to make ends meet without my wages 
from Hattie? She will, or she’ll die trying. Ma...oh, Ma... 

Plutarch was right. I did mess up. Big-time. And I will pay for it with 
my death and with the broken hearts and lives of everyone who loves me. 

I stare out at the trees flying by. I always thought if one of us shook 
free of 12, it would be Lenore Dove. Her people were great travelers once, 
going from district to district to perform their music. Tam Amber 
remembers it, as he was about my age when the war ended and the 
Peacekeepers rounded up the Covey, killing all the adults and confining the 
kids to our district. Nothing Lenore Dove loves better than those stories of 
the old days, with her kin rattling around in a broken-down pickup. When 
fuel got scarce, they resorted to hitching it up to a team of horses. By the 
time they were herded into 12, the team was pulling an old wagon and most 
of them were on foot, but they were making it work. Cooking over open 
fires, rolling into towns, playing in warehouses like the Hob, or fields if 
none were available, famous in their way to the locals. I’m sure their life 
had its trials, but she has such a romantic view of it, I never mention that. 
Returning to it is impossible, since no one can leave 12, and her uncles 
would never entertain the idea of hitting the road again. But Lenore Dove’s 
convinced there must be people outside of Panem, far to the north. 
Sometimes she takes to disappearing deep in the woods, and I worry she’s 
not coming back. Not really, but a little. Guess I can let that go now. 


Either we outrun the storm or it outruns us. The lingering raindrops on 
the window make me think about the cistern, and how I ran off to see 
Lenore Dove instead of going home to fill it. I don’t regret that precious 
final rendezvous with my love, but I wish I could’ve left Sid and Ma with a 
full tank, not just the few gallons the rain barrel might provide. Not that I 
think Ma will be able to do laundry this week. Or, I don’t know, maybe she 
will. She didn’t miss a beat when Pa died. Just made a giant pot of bean and 
ham hock soup, the way we do in the Seam when someone dies, and got 
back to work. I remember sitting by the stove, my tears splashing on the 
floor a few inches from a puddle under a miner’s shirt. In winter, clothes 
have to be hung inside to dry. Something’s always dripping. 

The train keeps rolling on, putting miles between me and everything 
I’ve ever known or loved or hoped for. Dreams of one day letting Ma quit 
the laundry business. Leaning on Sid about his schoolwork so he might get 
a coveted aboveground mine job — like keeping books or loading trains — 
where he could always lay eyes on the sky. And a life with Lenore Dove, 
loving her, marrying her, raising up our kids, her teaching them music and 
me doing whatever, digging coal or making white liquor — it wouldn’t 
have mattered if she was with me. All gone, all lost. 

Woodbine no longer seems reckless since he got to die in 12 and not 
in some sadistic arena out west like I will. A few years ago, the arena would 
go darkish without warming, and these giant coal-black weasels would melt 
right out of the shadows and attack the tributes. I think of those pointy teeth 
ripping off the face of the girl from District 5... 

I should’ve run. Should’ve let the Peacekeepers blow off my head on 
the square. Plenty of things are worse than a quick, clean death. By now, I 
might be wrapped in white linen, sleeping with my kin under the Abernathy 
headstone. We don’t tend to let bodies ripen in the heat. 

Several hours pass before a key’s turned in the lock and Plutarch 
sticks his head in my compartment. 

“Feel up to joining the others?” 

He says this like I’m recovering from a bellyache, not from being 
tased and torn from my life. I don’t know what to make of this Plutarch. I 
hate him for forcing Ma and Sid to playact for the cameras. But he did let 
me hug them when Drusilla said I couldn’t. And he probably saved Lenore 


Dove’s life by asking to keep her for the tearful good-bye. He’s as 
unpredictable as lightning. Might be worth staying on his good side. 

Besides, I need to check on Louella. I’m all she’s got now. 

“Sure,” I say. 

Plutarch orders the Peacekeepers to uncuff me, then leads me down 
the rocking hallway of the train to another compartment. Molded plastic 
seats in an array of neon colors line the sides of the car. I slide in next to 
Louella, across from Wyatt and Maysilee. 

“Anybody hungry?” asks Plutarch. No one replies. “Let me see what’s 
cooking.” He withdraws, locking the car door. 

I nudge Louella with my elbow. “Hey, girl.” I offer her my hand. 

Hers slips into mine, icy cold. “Hey, Hay,” she whispers. “Wasn’t fair 
how they took you.” 

For the first time, I consider this. Fair? It sure wasn’t. My reaping was 
irregular, maybe even illegal. But the number of people in the Capitol to 
whom I could plead my case is exactly zero. I’m nothing but an amusing 
tale for Drusilla to tell between the caviar and the cream puffs. 

“For me or anybody else,” I tell Louella. Her little face is so pinched 
that before I really think it through, I ask, “So, are you going to be my ally 
or what, sweetheart?” 

She actually smiles. It’s an old joke. When she was five and I was 
eight, she decided she was my sweetheart and trailed after me, telling 
anyone who’d listen. It lasted about a week, then she transferred her 
affections to a boy named Buster who gave her a bullfrog. I think her heart 
would’ve moved on anyway, as you’re probably not too stuck on someone 
you have burping contests with, but we’re still good buddies. If I had a little 
sister her age, I’d want her to be just like Louella, and I’ve harbored the 
hope that she’d wait for Sid to grow up before settling on a real sweetheart. 
Now, of course, her chances of growing up are nil. She’s frozen forever at 
thirteen. 

“T’ll be your ally,” she says. “You and me, we can trust each other.” 

You might think this would kick off a general District 12 alliance, but 
as I consider the other candidates, I’m not sure that’s desirable. I can’t get a 
read on Wyatt. On the one hand, that blank stare doesn’t suggest a lively 
mind. On the other, he’s fairly good-sized and I’ve never heard anything 
bad about him, which is more than I can say for Maysilee. I have no 


shortage of information on her, most of it gathered firsthand, and none of it 
flattering. 

Maysilee Donner — where to begin? Right from when we started 
school, she and Merrilee made an impression on me. Not just because of 
their town ways, but because my ma had recently lost a set of twins. Two 
little girls, tiny things that came too early. She grieved them mightily in her 
way, scrubbing clothes against her washboard until they shredded, and 
while Pa was never one to show his feelings, I heard him bawling when he 
thought I was asleep. The Donner twins have always held a certain 
fascination for me, as I wondered what my own sisters might’ve been like. 
Not like the Donners, I hope. I guess Merrilee isn’t too bad, except she 
tends to go along with everything Maysilee does. And Maysilee’s been too 
good for the rest of us from day one. Prissing around in her shiny shoes and 
nail polish, and never without some kind of ornament. How that girl loves 
jewelry. 

I look at her now, staring out the train window, her fingers entwined in 
the strands of a half dozen necklaces. Some beaded, some braided cord, 
some with trinkets hanging off of them, and at least one real gold. While 
Seam folk might have a treasured ornament or two, nobody has six 
necklaces. And if they did, they wouldn’t show off by wearing them all at 
once. 

Plutarch slides open the door and steps back to admit a Capitol 
attendant bearing a tray heaped with sandwiches. Each one’s loaded with a 
day’s wages of meat — fresh ham or roast beef or chicken cut thin and piled 
high — and sports a small paper flag of Panem on top. My mouth starts 
watering and I realize I haven’t eaten since breakfast. 

The attendant offers the tray to Louella, who hesitates, overwhelmed 
by the bounty before her. The McCoys can go weeks without meat, and 
what they do get generally comes from a tin. The attendant registers her 
discomfort and adopts a patronizing tone. “Is there a problem, miss?” 

Louella reddens — the McCoys don’t lack pride — but before she can 
answer, Maysilee snaps, “Of course there’s a problem! Do you expect her to 
eat with her hands? Or don’t you have plates and silverware in the 
Capitol?” 

Now it’s the attendant’s turn to blush. He stammers out, “They’re just 
sandwiches. I mean . . . people pick them up.” 


“Without even a napkin?” asks Maysilee. “I seriously doubt that.” 

The attendant turns to Plutarch, thrown. “Do they get napkins?” 

“Certainly. They’re our guests, Tibby,” says Plutarch mildly. “I’ve got 
to check on something in the kitchen. Let’s see if we can scrounge up a few 
plates, too. Excuse us.” 

When the door clicks shut, I can’t help laughing. 

“Shut up,” says Maysilee. “Listen, Louella, if you let them treat you 
like an animal, they will. So don’t let them.” 

It’s a little too much for Louella. Her eyes narrow and she retorts, “I 
wasn’t planning to. Somebody cut me off.” 

“Fine,” says Maysilee. “You don’t need my help.” 

“T don’t need help from anybody who said my sister uses coal dust for 
powder,” Louella tells her. 

Maysilee smiles a little, remembering. “She got a lot cleaner after 
that.” 

This reminds me of when I was six and got chiggers and Maysilee 
nicknamed me “Itchy Itchy Haymitchy.” Nobody would come near me for 
two weeks, even though I told them it wasn’t contagious. That name still 
makes me cringe ten years later. 

Any inclination I had to team up with Maysilee disappears. “She’s 
making this ally thing easy for us,” I say to Louella. 

“She sure is.” Louella crosses her arms. Then something catches her 
eye and she frowns. 

I follow her gaze to Wyatt, who looks as remote as ever, his eyes fixed 
on a sign on the door that reads waTcH your sTEP. There’s a glint in the 
evening sunlight; he’s knuckle rolling a scrip coin in a smooth, practiced 
fashion. At the click of the key in the latch, the coin vanishes. 

Tibby wheels in a cart laden with the dinner stuff. Everything seems 
to be made of plastic in this train: cart, seats, utensils, cups, plates. Easy to 
spray down and sanitize after we’re out, I guess. 

“T checked. And there’s a surprise for dessert,” Plutarch teases from 
the door. 

Like we need any more surprises today. 

Tibby hovers over Louella. “What can I get you? We have chicken, 
ham, and roast beef.” 

“Ham,” says Louella. 


“Sure you won’t try a roast beef as well? The chef uses a marinade 
that makes it rather special,” says Tibby. 

“Why not?” Louella accepts her plate, napkin, utensils, and a bottle of 
lemonade. 

When Tibby turns to Maysilee, his solicitousness vanishes. “And 
you?” 

Maysilee takes her time considering the platter. “The roast beef, as 
rare as you have it.” She spreads her napkin out to protect her skirt, then 
arranges her utensils on it. “Trays wouldn’t be unheard of, but never mind.” 

When Wyatt and I have received loaded plates — I order all three 
sandwiches — the attendant and Plutarch withdraw. I look at Maysilee, 
who’s daintily cutting hers into tiny bites and spearing them with her fork. 
Believe me, no one else in Panem — not Capitol or district — eats a 
sandwich like that. I decide to start with the ham and take a big bite. Boy, 
it’s good. Smoky, salty, and drizzled with something that tastes like Ma’s 
chow-chow. I notice Louella peeking under the top layer of bread. 

“Go on, eat up,” I tell her. My ally could use some meat on her bones. 
She digs in. 

It doesn’t take long for me to polish off my sandwiches and drain my 
lemonade bottle. The food lifts my spirits a bit. Maybe there’s a way out of 
this. Like we make a break for it and jump from the train. As I puzzle over 
how we might achieve this, Plutarch reappears and invites us to move to the 
lounge car with him. In the hall, I check for possible escape routes, but 
Peacekeepers block every potential exit. 

We relocate to the back of the train where an area’s done up like a 
sitting room. The plastic-upholstered furniture is softer and stickier than our 
compartment seats. Capitol News plays on a screen built into the wall, and 
the recap of today’s reaping begins by the time we’ve settled in. 

“T’ve been working on the District Twelve segment all afternoon,” 
says Plutarch. “Gave it the old Heavensbee spin. You four come off 
beautifully.” 

Drusilla totters in the door, a tall red drink garnished with vegetables 
in her hand. The front of her yellow military jacket, now unbuttoned, keeps 
flapping open to reveal her undergarments. 

Plutarch offers her a chair. “Saved you the best seat.” 


She collapses into it, pulls a stalk of celery from her drink, and 
chomps on it. “How old did I look today, Plutarch?” 

“Not a day over thirty,” Plutarch promises. “Everybody commented 
on it.” 

“Well, you get what you pay for,” she slurs, gingerly probing her 
cheekbone with the celery. She points at the screen and laughs. “Ha! 
There’s Juvenia! Little Miss Perfect didn’t get any cloud cover. She looks 
ghastly, don’t you think?” 

Juvenia, a pint-sized lady in six-inch heels and pink polka dots, begins 
calling names in District 1. The program moves on, and they air every 
district’s drawing. Besides us, forty-four tributes were reaped today, half 
girls, half boys, of every shape and size. As usual, the kids from Districts 1, 
2, and 4 live up to their nickname as the Careers, which means they seem to 
have been training for the Hunger Games since birth. Here and there, 
chance has thrown in some additional brawny kids, but plenty of scrawny 
ones balance them out. On the brawny-to-scrawny scale, I do okay, largely 
because of all those bags of grain I haul for Hattie. But some of those 
Careers could crush me like a bug. And Louella’s yet to get her growth. 

As a strapping boy mounts the stage in District 11, Drusilla states the 
obvious. “You lot better be able to run.” She doesn’t even say this in a mean 
way, which makes it scarier. 

“Other factors besides size come into play. Brains, skills, strategy. 
And never rule out luck,” says Plutarch. “Your mentors will talk you 
through everything.” 

Our mentors. Our guides, our masterminds, our protectors in the 
Hunger Games. Except the District 12 tributes don’t have automatic 
mentors, not even one, because we’re the only district without living 
victors, and that’s who the job traditionally falls to. 

In fifty years, we’ve only had one victor, and that was a long time 
ago. A girl who no one seems to know anything about. Back then, barely 
anyone in 12 had a television, so the Games were mostly hearsay. I’ve 
never seen her in the clips of the old shows, but then those early efforts are 
rarely featured, as they are said to be badly filmed and lacking in spectacle. 
My parents weren’t born yet, and even Mamaw couldn’t tell me much about 
the girl. I brought our victor up with Lenore Dove a few times, but she 
never wanted to discuss her. 


“Who are our mentors anyway?” I ask. 

“They’re in the process of selecting them from the pool of victors not 
tapped to oversee their own district tributes,” says Plutarch. “Don’t worry, 
some very talented candidates are in the running.” 

Yeah. Candidates who would be pariahs if they led a District 12 
tribute to victory while their own district’s tributes died. Most years, I don’t 
even hear about who ends up mentoring the kids from 12. Let’s face it, 
we’re on Our Own. 

Drusilla lets out a gasp. “Daylight is murder!” 

They’ve cut to District 12, where our fates were sealed. 

“And yet, you’re luminous,” Plutarch assures her. 

I watch, both fascinated and sickened by the flawless transition from 
Maysilee’s drawing to Wyatt’s and mine. Not even a hint of Woodbine’s 
shooting or the turmoil that followed. And there’s my name, and there’s me, 
and there’s Ma gasping, Sid crying, Lenore Dove with her hand clasped 
over her mouth. 

“That’s not what happened,” I say. 

“None of the footage has been tampered with — not really time to do 
that properly,” says Plutarch. “TI just did a little card- stacking to help you 
out.” 

“You did what?” asks Louella. 

Before he can answer, Wyatt, who hasn’t opened his mouth except to 
eat since 12, weighs in. “He stacked the deck in our favor. He shuffled the 
shots around to give us an advantage.” 

Plutarch beams at him. “Exactly!” 

A corner of Louella’s mouth twists down. “You mean, like in card 
games. When people gamble. Isn’t that cheating?” 

“It is and it isn’t,” says Plutarch. “Look, we need to sell you to the 
sponsors. If I showed the audience what really happened — the Chance 
boy’s head being blown off, the crowd control, Haymitch attacking the 
Peacekeepers —” 

I object. “TI didn’t attack anyone. They attacked my girl and I stepped 
in.” 

“Same thing,” says Drusilla. “You’re not allowed to interfere with our 
Peacekeepers.” 
“I'm trying to show you in the best possible light,” says Plutarch. 


Maysilee rolls her eyes. “Like when our shop calls stale 
marshmallows ‘chewy.’ And then charges an extra penny for them.” 

I scowl at her. I’ve fallen for that “chewy” marshmallow scam more 
than once. 

“Stress the positive, ignore the negative,” says Plutarch. 

“Instead of four violent district piglets who hate the Capitol —” 
Drusilla begins. 

“You’re a quartet of attractive kids who hop right up there on that 
stage to the cheers of your district, raring to go!” finishes Plutarch. 

“You should be down on your knees kissing this man’s feet. Maybe 
you won’t get any sponsors, but at least you haven’t repelled them. He’s 
given you a total makeover,” says Drusilla. 

“You mean, he’s given the Capitol a total makeover,” scoffs Maysilee. 
“Made you look competent when you couldn’t even pull off the reaping.” 

“T like to think it was mutually beneficial,” says Plutarch. “And the 
audience is none the wiser. I saw to that.” 

I’m entirely the Capitol’s plaything. They will use me for their 
entertainment and then kill me, and the truth will have no say in it. Plutarch 
acts friendly, but his indulgences — my family’s good-byes, his fancy 
sandwiches — are just a method to manage me, because happy playthings 
are easier to handle than raging ones. To get his footage, he’ ll indulge me 
right into the arena. 

As if to confirm this, the door to the sitting room bursts open to reveal 
Tibby, his face aglow with the sixteen candles on a giant birthday cake. 


> 


We don’t do birthday cakes in my house. Seems wrong on reaping 
day, and Ma thinks it’s unfair for her and Sid to have a cake if I don’t. 
Instead, she makes something nice for breakfast, like the corn bread and 
sauce, and saves all of her cake energy for New Year’s Day. 

She starts setting things aside months in advance: the dried apples, the 
sorghum syrup, the white flour. The spices — ginger and cinnamon and 
whatnot — are so costly she buys them in little twists of paper from the 
Marches’ apothecary. A couple days before New Year’s, she makes the 
apple filling and bakes the six layers of cake, and alternates them — cake, 
filling, cake, filling, until it’s in one big beautiful stack. She wraps it all up 
in a towel so it can rest, and that sweet apple filling soaks into the cake. 
Then, on New Year’s Day at suppertime, she pours everybody a big glass of 
buttermilk and we eat all the stack cake that we can hold. 

So the cake in front of me, with its fancy frosted flowers, is all wrong. 
The candles smack of the Capitol. And the song Tibby leads the 
Peacekeepers in, while common in 12, is never sung in my house because it 
would be as unsuitable as a birthday cake. 


Happy birthday 
To someone special! 


And we wish you many more! 
Once a year 

We give a cheer 

To you, Hay-ay-ay-mitch! 
Happy birthday! 


The cameraman from Plutarch’s crew, sneaking his lens over Tibby’s 
shoulder to film my reaction, is the cherry on the birthday cake fiasco. 
Clearly, Plutarch wants to capture my delight so he can broadcast it all over 
Panem. Look how well the Capitol treats the tributes. How forgiving they 
are to their enemies. How superior they are to those district piglets in their 
stinkholes. 

I’ve seen similar clips before of the tributes being treated like 
pampered pets. Being brushed and fed and flattered, lapping it up. Playing 
into the Capitol propaganda. Maybe it gets them more sponsors, but if they 
do win, it’s not going to get them a parade back home. 

“Don't let them use you, Sarshee. Don't let them paint their posters 
with your blood. Not if you can help it.” 

That’s it. That’s what Pa told Sarshee in the Justice Building. That’s 
what Ma wanted me to remember. Even though — maybe especially 
because — she had just let Plutarch use her and Sid like puppets. She had 
failed, but wanted me to be strong. 

Plutarch had my family over a barrel when we were desperate for one 
last embrace, but now he’s got nothing I want. I rise as I weigh my options. 
I could knock the cake to the ground, hawk and spit on it, or just shove it 
into Tibby’s stupid face. Instead, I go all Maysilee Donner, turning my back 
and walking over to look out the window. 

In the reflection, I see Tibby deflate. “It has pineapple filling?” he 
offers. 

I give my head a slight shake. 

“A miscalculation on my part,” Plutarch says. “Take it out, Tibby. I’m 
sorry, Haymitch.” 

An apology? From a Capitol guy? Then I see it for what it is: another 
way to manipulate me by pretending I’m a human being, worthy of an 
apology. I don’t even acknowledge it. 


It makes me feel pretty bad, though. That cake. The last thing I 
needed was a big Capitol reminder that this would be my final birthday. The 
same goes for all of us. And while we’re not all allies, I appreciate that no 
one’s shouted out, “Well, hold on, I’ll take a piece!” 

After my cake and Capitol well-wishers have withdrawn, Plutarch 
continues. “Back to business. Along with your mentors, District Twelve 
will be assigned its very own stylist.” 

“And not a moment too soon.” Drusilla snorts and gives Louella’s 
gingham dress an appraising look. “Honestly, where do you people find 
these things?” 

“My ma made it,” says Louella evenly. “Where did you find yours?” 

Louella’s holding her own, but Maysilee lands the insult. “I was 
wondering the same. It’s like someone mated a Peacekeeper and a canary 
and... there you are.” 

“What?” says Drusilla. She rises from her chair but wobbles a bit 
before she finds her balance on her spiked heels. 

“Careful,” says Maysilee. She drips sugar as she goes for the jugular. 
“Might be time to rethink those boots. Wouldn’t something closer to the 
ground be safer for a person your age?” 

Drusilla hauls off and slaps Maysilee, who, without missing a beat, 
slaps her right back. A real wallop. Drusilla’s knocked off her boots and 
into the chair I recently vacated. Everyone freezes and I wonder if we’re 
about to be executed on the spot. 

“Don’t you ever touch me again,” says Maysilee. The color’s gone 
from her face except for the print of Drusilla’s hand. You got to hand it to 
Maysilee, nobody’s using footage of her for propaganda. 

“Why don’t we all take a deep breath?” Plutarch suggests. “It’s been a 
tough day. Everybody’s emotions are running high and —!” 

Drusilla flies up, rips the riding crop from its boot clip, and begins 
beating Maysilee, who cries out and raises her arms to protect her head. But 
the blows keep raining down, forcing her to the floor. 

“Drusilla! Stop! Drusilla, we have to put her on camera tomorrow!” 
Plutarch warns. He has to summon two Peacekeepers from the hallway to 
pull her off. 

“Nasty, disgusting creature,” Drusilla pants. “I will destroy you before 
you even make it to the arena.” 


The welts have already risen on Maysilee’s arms and neck, but she 
ignores them. I doubt she’s ever been hit before, let alone whipped. I 
haven’t much either. Mamaw used to cuff me on the head, but it was more 
to get my attention than to hurt me. Maysilee slowly pushes herself up from 
the floor, using the wall for support, before she responds. “Really? How? 
You’re not a Gamemaker. You’re not even a stylist. You’re nothing but a 
low-rent escort hanging on by your fingernails to the trashiest district in 
Panem.” 

This hits a nerve. Fear flickers across Drusilla’s face before she 
recovers. “And you’re headed for a bloody and agonizing death.” 

Maysilee gives a bitter laugh. “That’s right. I am. So why should I 
care what you say? Unless I win, of course. But even then, who do you 
think will be more popular? The victor of the Quarter Quell .. . or you?” 

Drusilla’s expression twists into a leer. “I hope you do win. You have 
no idea what’s in store for you then. You know nothing.” She limps to the 
door. 

“1 know my grandmother had a jacket like yours, but we wouldn’t let 
her wear it out of the house,” says Maysilee. 

Drusilla tenses, but tries to make a dignified exit. 

There’s a long pause, then Plutarch says, “You may find Drusilla 
ridiculous, but be smart. You four don’t have your own district mentor. Your 
stylist’s job begins and ends with your appearance. It might not be fair, but 
Drusilla may be the best advocate you have in the Capitol. Think about it 
before you burn that bridge entirely.” He leaves, quietly closing the door 
behind him. 

“You okay?” I ask Maysilee. 

“Never better.” She gingerly touches the welts, bringing tears to her 
eyes. 

I can’t help feeling sorry for her and a little impressed by how she 
stood up to Drusilla. Even though she’s rich, she’s not trying to cozy up to 
the Capitol people. We’re all equally beneath her. “There I was, trying to be 
so high-and-mighty about the cake, and then you go all wildcat on us.” 

Maysilee gives a small smile. “Well, I have strong opinions on 
fashion.” 

“T guess you do,” says Louella. 


“It’s high time someone told Miss Matchy-Matchy she looks 
hideous,” says Maysilee. “But you look fine, Louella. Your mother did a 
nice job trimming your dress.” 

The girls eye each other. I can feel a slight thaw, but all Louella says 
is “I think so, too.” 

A Peacekeeper beckons us from the door and we follow her back 
through the train to a compartment with two sets of bunk beds built into the 
walls. A door leads to a small bathroom with a toilet and sink. 
“Toothbrushes and towels in the bathroom, and you each get your own 
bed.” 

She waits, as if we’re supposed to be grateful, but the only person 
who responds is Maysilee. “It smells like cooked cabbage in here.” 

“In the old days, we used to put you in cattle cars,” the Peacekeeper 
replies, then locks us in. 

On the pillows are pajamas, which we sort out based on our sizes. We 
take turns in the bathroom and retreat to our bunks. Shades automatically 
Slide down over the windows and the bulbs above the door dim, leaving us 
in twilight. Wyatt falls asleep almost immediately, judging by his snores, 
and Louella follows suit. Maysilee sits on the top bunk across from me, 
holding a wet washrag to her welts. I lie on my back, staring at the ceiling, 
trying to make sense of the day. 

My fingers wrap around the flint striker hanging from my neck. The 
picture of Lenore Dove, drenched and wailing in the storm, overtakes me, 
and my heart begins to splinter again. I squeeze my eyes shut tight and 
reach for her across the miles, knowing she is reaching for me, too. I hear 
her voice singing a piece of her poem, her name song. 


Deep into that darkness peering, long I stood there wondering, 
fearing, 

Doubting, dreaming dreams no mortal ever dared to dream before; 

But the silence was unbroken, and the stillness gave no token, 

And the only word there spoken was the whispered word, “Lenore?” 


I know every word of the song, since I learned it for Lenore Dove’s 
birthday last December. It wasn’t that hard, it being what she calls an 
earworm, Meaning it sticks in your head whether you want it to or not. It’s 


true, the thing’s addictive, rhyming and repeating in a way that dares you to 
stop, all while telling you a haunting story. I sang it to her in an old house 
by the lake in front of a fire. We were toasting stale marshmallows and 
we’d skipped school, which we both caught hell for later. She said it was 
her favorite gift ever... . 


This I whispered, and an echo murmured back the word, “Lenore!” 


“What is that?” 
I try to ignore Maysilee. 


Merely this and nothing more. 


“The thing around your neck?” 

The connection has broken. Lenore Dove’s gone. I look over to find 
Maysilee staring at me, her eyes wide in the dark. 

“Birthday present. From my girl.” 

“Can I see it? I collect jewelry.” 

You don’t hear that much in District 12, but Mr. Donner spoils his 
girls rotten. Lenore Dove told me that, on their thirteenth birthday, he gave 
them pure gold pins that had belonged to his mother. They’d been fashioned 
by Tam Amber over thirty years ago. I never saw them, but Merrilee’s 
featured a hummingbird and Maysilee’s a mockingjay, birds being one of 
the Covey’s great loves. Apparently, Merrilee wore hers all of five minutes 
before she lost it down a well. Maysilee threw a fit over hers, saying a 
mockingjay was an ugly old thing and why couldn’t Tam Amber melt it 
down and make her something pretty like a butterfly? When he declined, 
she stuffed the pin in the back of a drawer and never wore it once. 

Lenore Dove saw red when she heard about the twins, feeling they 
neither appreciated nor deserved Tam Amber’s craftsmanship, and for a 
time, she spoke about breaking into the Donners’ and stealing that 
mockingjay pin back. Burdock and I talked her out of it. What with two 
recent arrests, it seemed unwise. But it still eats at her. 1 know she would 
not want Maysilee’s manicured paws on my necklace. 

“Tt’s kind of personal,” I say. “I mean, I’m not planning on taking it 
off ever again. It’s not really jewelry anyway.” 


She nods and doesn’t pursue it. Just hangs her washrag over the 
bedrail, gets under her covers, and rolls over to face the wall. I’m chilly in 
the refrigerated train air, so I pull up the Capitol blanket, which is stiff and 
has a chemical odor. Nothing like my soft patchwork quilt that Ma dries in 
the sunshine on Sundays, when the mine’s quiet and the soot’s minimal so it 
smells like fresh air. Ma... Sid... 

I don’t expect to sleep, but the day’s been so draining that the 
movement of the train lulls me into a semiconscious state. A few hours 
later, I wake with a start and feel someone shaking my leg. 

“Hay. Hay!” Louella whispers over Wyatt’s snores. 

I prop myself up on my elbow and squint at her through the dim light. 
“What’s going on?” 

“T don’t want Wyatt. I don’t want him for an ally, okay?” 

“Wyatt? Okay, but can I know why? He looks pretty strong and —” 

She breaks in. “He’s a Booker Boy. At least, his pa is.” 

The Booker Boys are miners who cater to those who like to gamble in 
12. They take bets on any number of goings-on — dogfights, mayor 
appointments, boxing matches — and organize gambling events. On 
Saturday nights, you can usually find them in an old garage behind the Hob, 
running dice and card games for a cut. If things get tense with the 
Peacekeepers, like the time someone set fire to a jeep, then they lay low, 
popping up in back alleys and condemned houses. 

Personally, I never gamble. If Ma heard I’d been spending money on 
cards, she’d kill me, and beyond that, I just don’t get the thrill of it. Life in 
general seems risky enough to me. But if people want to throw away their 
money, it’s not my business. 

“Well, I make white liquor, so I’m not one to point fingers,” I tell 
Louella. “We’re both operating outside the law. And doesn’t Cayson like his 
dice?” 

Cayson’s her older brother and, when he’s not in the mines, he’s 
chasing some kind of pleasure. 

Louella gives her head an impatient shake. “Not just dice. I mean 
now. I mean us.” 

Then I get it. Around this time every year, a couple of Booker Boys 
take bets on the Hunger Games tributes. Like how old will the kids be, 
Seam or town, the number of tesserae they carry. The betting continues 


through the Games, with odds on deaths and districts and the ultimate 
victor. It should be illegal, but the Peacekeepers don’t care. It’s modeled on 
their own system of betting in the Capitol. Most of the Booker Boys shun 
this, it being too blackhearted, but a few make a nice profit. Those are sick 
and twisted people, and not the kind you can trust in the Hunger Games. 

“You sure, Louella?” I ask. 

“Near as I can be. I didn’t put it together until I saw Wyatt messing 
with that coin,” she said. “Cayson told me all the gamblers learn that stuff, 
to signal people there’s a game on when they can’t say so out loud.” 

“He seemed to know all about stacking the deck... .” 

“And one time, someone brought up Mr. Callow, and Cayson spit and 
said he didn’t have no truck with people who made money on dead kids.” 

Well, Wyatt being reaped is the final word in irony. I think of the 
Callows frantically trying to reach him on the square. Never getting to say 
good-bye. Hard to feel much pity for them now. “Do you think he took bets 
on our reaping with his pa?” 

“That’d be my guess,” she says. 

“Mine, too. Booker Boys keep their business in the family. I don’t 
want Wyatt either, Louella. It’s just you and me. Try and get some more 
Sleep, okay?” 

I don’t, though. Around dawn, the shades retract and I stare out into 
unfamiliar mountains, adding insult to injury. What’s happening in my 
mountains? Is Hattie brewing another batch of forgetfulness? Is Ma 
scrubbing away her grief on the washboard, while Sid fills the cistern under 
a cloudless sky? Are the geese standing guard over Lenore Dove’s heart? 
As much pain as my loved ones feel now, how long will it be until I am just 
a memory? 

Plutarch sticks his head in to announce breakfast in a cheerful voice 
that suggests yesterday never happened. We dress and go back to the sitting 
room car for egg and bacon sandwiches and more lemonade. Maysilee asks 
for coffee, a rich person drink in 12, and Tibby brings us each a cup. I don’t 
care for the bitter stuff. 

The train climbs and climbs and suddenly we’re in a pitch-black 
tunnel and Plutarch says it won’t be long now, but it seems like an eternity. 
When we finally pull into the station, the sunlight streaming through the 


glass panels dazzles my eyes before I make out another train across the 
platform. 

I recognize Juvenia, the District 1 escort who Drusilla sneered at, 
tentatively descending the train steps in snakeskin boots. Behind her come 
her four tributes, cuffed and chained together, towering over their 
Peacekeepers. When the car door shuts behind them, the boy bringing up 
the rear suddenly turns and kicks the window. The glass shatters like an 
eggshell. 

A quiet voice behind me says, “Panache Barker, District One tribute, 
trained Career, roughly three hundred pounds. His last name suggests he’s 
related to Palladium Barker, who took the crown four years ago. He’ll 
currently have odds of about five to two, which in the arena would translate 
into an average of two meals a day from sponsors. He looks to be a lefty, 
which can be a plus or a minus, but he’s also a hothead, and that could cost 
him. Based on the reaping stats — training, weight, lineage — he’s a 
current crowd favorite, whereas we’re strictly long-shot material.” 

We all stare at Wyatt, who keeps his eyes on the competition as he 
muses, “You might not want me, but it’s a sure bet you need me.” 


“J 


“Not just a Booker Boy, but an eavesdropper,” says Louella. 

“I’m not a Booker Boy,” Wyatt replies. “I’m an oddsmaker. I 
determine the odds on an event people are betting on. That’s all. My family 
are the Booker Boys — they take the bets.” 

“That sounds just as bad. And you’re still an eavesdropper, either 
way,” says Louella. 

“Where did you expect us to go, Louella?” says Maysilee, indicating 
that she overheard our conversation as well. “Maybe Wyatt and I don’t want 
to be your allies either. Thought of that?” 

“Then we don’t have a problem,” Louella says. 

Plutarch beckons us from the door. “All right, kids, we’re out of 
here.” 

Although the train has not exactly been homey, climbing down into 
the glaring station makes me feel small and vulnerable. The four of us move 
closer together, even though we’re far from friendly. The Peacekeepers cuff 
us again and I wait for a chain to link us together, but when it’s produced, 
the officer in charge waves it away, saying, “Don’t bother.” 

“Long shots,” Wyatt murmurs. 


It reinforces what I already know, that we are not victor material. On 
the other hand, this could be an opportunity to run. But where can an 
escaped tribute find protection in the Capitol? I think of the smoky mist in 
my mountains, Lenore Dove’s friend of the condemned, and see no 
equivalent here. 

So I just stand there like the puny long shot I am, taking in the 
banners that deck the station. NO PEACE, NO PROSPERITY! NO 
HUNGER GAMES, NO PEACE! It’s the same campaign they used on our 
square back in District 12, but with slogans geared to the Capitol residents. 
Seems the Capitol has to convince its own citizens, too. 

Drusilla clatters down the steps in platform boots and a skintight 
jumpsuit emblazoned with the flag of Panem. Her hat, a two-foot pillar of 
red fur, jauntily tilts over one eye. A smear of yellow frosting trails out of 
the side of her mouth. Someone had no problem celebrating my birthday. 

“Enjoy the cake?” asks Maysilee. The girl has not backed down an 
inch. 

Drusilla looks confused until Plutarch taps his face. “A little 
something right here.” For lack of a mirror, Drusilla checks her reflection in 
the train window and cleans off the frosting with her tongue. Her cheek, 
where Maysilee struck her, looks slightly bruised under her thick layer of 
makeup. 

“You’re beautiful,” says Plutarch. I guess she’s just another plaything 
he has to handle, only what controls her are compliments. 

“All right, you lot, let’s go,” Drusilla says before striding down the 
platform. 

Outside, we get about thirty seconds of fresh air before we’re loaded 
into a windowless Peacekeepers van. I’ve only ever been in an automobile a 
handful of times, in the car to the train station yesterday and on a truck for a 
couple of school trips to the mines. Never when I couldn’t see out. Never 
when I was being taken to die. No light, no air. Like they buried me already. 

Louella presses against my shoulder and it steadies me. I sense that 
she’s how I’m going to get through the nightmare of the next few days. 
Looking after her will give me a reason to keep going; her looking after me 
will stave off the terror of facing death alone. I can only hope we leave the 
world together. 

“Doing all right, sweetheart?” I ask. 


“T’ve been better,” she responds. 

“We'll just stick together, okay?” 

“Okay.” 

When the van doors swing open, I’m temporarily thrown by the light 
again. The dryness of the air makes me crave the cold mountain creek water 
Hattie has me draw buckets of. What will she do now that I’m gone? Get 
another mule, I guess. A luckier one. 

Drusilla and Plutarch are nowhere to be seen. Peacekeepers order us 
out of the van. My old boots look peculiar on the white marble paving 
stones of the walkway. It branches out to a wide expanse of imposing 
buildings filled with people who point and stare at us from a distance. Not 
grown-ups. People our age, dressed in matching uniforms. School kids. 

I feel like a wild animal on display, cuffed and mute, dragged in from 
the hills for their fun. All of us shrink a bit. Maysilee keeps her head up, but 
her cheeks burn with embarrassment. 

“Still don’t think it’s a good idea to bring them to the Academy,” one 
of the Peacekeepers mutters. 

“This gymnasium’s been empty for close to forty years,” says another. 
“Might as well get some use out of it.” 

“Ought to tear it down,” says the first. “It’s an eyesore.” 

The van pulls away, revealing the gymnasium, a looming, dilapidated 
structure with a banner over the entrance that reads TRIBUTE CENTER in 
metallic gold letters. The Peacekeepers hold the cracked glass doors open 
and the smell of floor cleaner and mildew hits us. 

We’re the last tributes to arrive. Our competitors sit around the room 
in bunches of four at stations marked with their district numbers. The 
Peacekeepers herd us to the 12 sign at the far end of the gym, amidst 
catcalls and taunts. They’re a mouthy bunch, this year’s Careers. 

Each station consists of four padded tables separated by flimsy 
curtains. Pairs of white-coated assistants flank the tables, wearing utility 
belts filled with grooming equipment: scissors and razors and such. 

The Peacekeepers direct the boy tributes to one locker room, the girls 
to another. I don’t like leaving Louella, but there’s no choice. Maybe in a 
pinch, Maysilee will protect her. She looks like trouble, with her welts and 
her scowl. Like someone who’d hit back, which it turns out she is. 


At the locker room door, they line up the boys by district number, so 
Wyatt and I don’t have to watch our backs, just the muscular ones of the 
District 11 tributes ahead of us. They’re a sullen pair, though, uninterested 
in their surroundings. 

Inside we’re told to strip, which is easy from the waist down but 
undoable above the belt with our cuffed hands. Peacekeepers come around 
and cut away our shirts with knives. If anyone objects, they laugh and say 
it’s all the same to the incinerator. It hurts watching them slice through Ma’s 
careful stitches. I remember her painstakingly laying out those 
handkerchiefs to make every inch of material count. Now it sits in shreds at 
my feet. 

A Peacekeeper taps his knifepoint against my flint striker. “This your 
token?” 

My token? Then I remember that tributes are allowed to take one item 
from home into the arena with them, as long as it’s not a weapon. My flint 
striker could be viewed as an unfair advantage, but I’m not giving them any 
help with that. 

“Yes, it’s anecklace,” I say. 

The Peacekeeper rubs the metal between his fingers and admits 
grudgingly, “It’s nice. They’ll take it later for evaluation.” I nod. Even if 
they examine it, they might not recognize its potential. Here, where there 
are ample matches and lighters and no one needs a spark to make a fire. 

We’re marched into a large, open room with blue tiles on the floor and 
showerheads spaced around the walls. I’m no prude — I’ve skinny-dipped 
plenty out at the lake with Burdock — but I’m not used to standing around 
naked eyeballing twenty-three other guys. At first, I just stare at a drain on 
the floor, then I realize there’s no better place to size up the competition, so 
I do. The half dozen Careers look like they spend their spare time posing for 
statues. Another dozen of us might stand a chance if we’re handy with an 
ax. And the remaining half dozen are pitiful, all hollow rib cages and 
matchstick bones. 

Panache, who I recognize from the train, struts around thrusting his 
privates at people and grunting, much to the amusement of the other 
Careers. He makes the mistake of trying this on one of the District 11 
tributes and winds up with a swift kick in the gut. Panache’s about to 


retaliate when the showerheads come to life, soaking us with scalding 
water. 

We all dodge around, trying to evade the streams. Things go from bad 
to worse when the water’s replaced by a noxious soapy spray that triggers 
my gag reflex and burns my eyes like pepper dust. The water returns, but 
this time we’re fighting for it as we try to get the soap off. When the 
showers turn to drips, I still feel covered in a stinging slime from head to 
toe. 

A towel might help, but instead a blast of hot air follows, which adds 
to the misery and bakes the slime into my skin, making it itch like crazy. 
Whatever fight any of us had in us has been squelched. We’re just a 
scratching, sniveling bunch of kids with runny eyes and spiked hair. Back in 
the locker room, we’re each given a sheet of crepe paper to wrap around 
ourselves for modesty’s sake and directed back to our district areas in the 
sym. 

I hope Louella has been spared this, but when I see her braids sticking 
out like a broken weather vane, I know she’s been through the wringer, too. 
It must have been agony for Maysilee, with all those welts. We’re each 
directed to a table, ordered to sit, and this time, like the Careers’, our cuffs 
are fastened to chains. 

That’s all I see of the other tributes for a while, as the Peacekeepers 
shut off my cubicle with the white curtains. A girl with puffballs of magenta 
hair and a guy with metal apples studding his cheeks approach nervously. 
Neither of them looks much older than me. 

“Hi, Haymitch,” says the girl breathlessly. “I’m Proserpina, and this is 
Vitus. We’re your prep team, and we’re here to make you gorgeous!” 

“Yes! Yes!” says Vitus. “Gorgeous, but fierce!” He bares his teeth and 
growls. “To scare the others off!” 

“And get you lots of sponsors!” Proserpina’s voice drops to a whisper. 
“We can’t send you things, of course, since we’re part of your team. But my 
great-aunt already said she’!l sponsor you. And not just to help my grade.” 

Her grade? “You’re students? At this school?” 

“Oh, no, we’re University students, not Academy. I mean, we’re not 
seniors or anything,” says Vitus. “They all wanted better districts.” 

“But we really like you. You’re cute!” Proserpina assures me. “And 
anyway, we have two more years to move up.” 


So, my team consists of Drusilla, who hates me, a mentor rooting for 
another tribute, a couple of underclassmen, and... “Who’s my stylist?” 

Their faces fall and they exchange a look. “District Twelve got Magno 
Stift again,” admits Vitus. “But he is NOT as bad as they say.” 

I groan. Magno Stift’s the guy who’s been assigned to the District 12 
tributes for as long as I can remember. And yes, he’s every bit as bad as 
they say. While the other stylists do new costumes each year for the parade 
and interviews that happen before the Games, he seems to have a limitless 
supply of the same crappy coal miner overalls in an array of sizes. 

“He’s promised a shining new look for the Quarter Quell!” Proserpina 
reassures me. 

“Which is good, because nobody’s going to sponsor you in that old 
stuff,” says Vitus. 

“And we shouldn’t have any accidents today, because they’ ve banned 
live-reptile fashion backstage,” adds Proserpina. “Not just Magno’s — 
everybody’s. Although he’s the only one who really wears it.” 

“Last year his belt buckle fell off and bit Drusilla,” Vitus whispers. “It 
was this really angry turtle. And she got so mad she bit him back. Magno, 
not the turtle. And we saw the whole thing but we’re not supposed to talk 
about it, even though everybody —” 

“Well, we won’t have a repeat of that!” interjects Proserpina, shooting 
him a look. “Shall we start with your body hair? All the bugs gone?” 

So that’s what the chemicals were. Insecticides. If I was going to be 
around long enough to worry about long-term effects, I might get angry. 

“Wait!” yelps Vitus. “We need to do the before shots!” 

Proserpina produces a tiny camera and they photograph me from head 
to toe. “That was a close one. We’d probably get an incomplete without the 
before shots.” 

The prep team shaves off all my visible body hair with electric razors. 
I don’t have much facial hair, but they decide to take that off as well. I feel 
like a skinned squirrel, raw and exposed. Then they trim my nails, honoring 
my request to leave me enough to fight with because, as Proserpina says, 
“You might need your claws.” I wonder if she thinks of my nose as a snout, 
my hair as fur, my feet as paws. 

Vitus adds a handful of goo to my porcupine hair and massages it 
until it’s no longer in danger of snapping off. He’s pretty good with the hair, 


actually, reclaiming my curls and eliminating the itch. I talk him into letting 
me rub some of the goo over my body, and I can finally stop scratching. 

I’m obliging with the after shots, given that my prep team has been 
responsive to my requests and I could use a friend or two here in the 
Capitol. I’m rewarded with a new sheet of paper and a linty peppermint 
drop from Proserpina’s pocket that I’m not too proud to accept. It takes the 
insecticide taste from my mouth and reminds me of happier days. They run 
off then, because Proserpina’s sister wants to touch up her magenta hair 
pom-poms in case she ends up on camera, and Vitus promised his mother 
he’d help her decorate for her Hunger Games party tonight. 

I’m relieved they’re gone and welcome my white-curtained privacy. 
Everything seems surreal, like a terrible fever dream that just keeps going. 
The chemical shower, my bizarre prep team, looking at my bald legs as I 
await a man who secures his pants with a live reptile. 

My fingers find the snake head at my neck and trace the scales 
transforming into feathers and then the bird’s pointed beak. I travel back to 
an overcast day, deep in the woods, a patch of trees we call ours, arms 
around Lenore Dove, night falling, neither of us caring. On a nearby branch 
perches a handsome blackbird. 

“That’s a raven. The bird from my name poem,” she says softly. “It’s 
the biggest songbird there is.” 

“He’s an impressive fellow,” I observe. 

“She is. She’s smart as a whip, too. Did you know they use logic to 
solve things?” 

“Got me beat there,” I have to admit. 

“And nobody tells them what to say. That bird is who I want to be 
when I grow up. Someone who says whatever they think is right, no matter 
what.” 

No matter what. That’s the part I’m worried about. That she might be 
saying something rash. Or even doing something beyond dangerous words. 
Something the Capitol won’t warn but whip her for. The year she turned 
twelve, she crossed that line twice. 

First, on the night before they were to hang Clay Chance in the 
square, someone shinnied up the gallows and filed halfway through the 
rope. Next morning, in front of a crowd, the rope snapped and Clay fell to 
the ground, where a dozen Peacekeeper bullets took him out. As the night 


had been pitch-black and snowing, the security camera didn’t catch much, 
but someone in the town had spotted Lenore Dove leaving the square and 
reported her. She was hauled into the base prison for questioning and would 
only say she hadn’t done anything wrong. The Peacekeepers didn’t know 
what to do with her. A little bit of a thing sitting there, her feet dangling 
inches from the floor, her wrists too skinny for the cuffs. Then Clay’s sister, 
Binnie, who’d been on borrowed time for a year due to a bad heart, 
confessed she’d done it. Three days later, Binnie died in her cell, and the 
uncles were allowed to collect Lenore Dove, promising she’d stay home at 
night. 

After that, Clerk Carmine kept her on a shorter leash. But the morning 
of the Forty-sixth Hunger Games, our first year in the reaping, smoke began 
seeping from beneath the temporary stage as we gathered. The 
Peacekeepers pulled out a wad of smoking cloth that turned out to be the 
flag of Panem. Burning the flag gets you ten years in prison, or likely more 
if it’s broadcast across the nation, but all traces were removed before the 
cameras rolled. The stage had been assembled only the evening before, and 
the Peacekeepers hadn’t thought to install security cameras beneath it. 
Under the platform, a grate leading to utility pipes had been disturbed. 
Apparently, a candle, lit hours before, had burned down to ignite the 
kerosene-soaked flag. It could have been anyone. With no proof and no 
witnesses, they rounded up those with a history of suspicious behavior, and 
Lenore Dove was arrested again. She said she’d been home, writing her will 
in case her name got called in the reaping. Then she read them said 
document, seven pages in which most of her worldly belongings went to her 
geese. Maybe it was overkill, the way she’d prepared. Maybe the 
Peacekeepers could sense they were being played. They let her go again, 
but this time with a strict warning that they had their eye on her. 

It was her, though. Both times. I know it in my heart, even though 
she’s never quite admitted it to me or her uncles. She says all the Covey 
girls are a mystery, it’s half their charm. When I press her, she just laughs 
and says if it’s true, that information could put me in danger, and if it’s 
false, what does it matter? “Didn’t do much good anyway, did it? Clay’s 
dead and the reaping’s alive and well.” 

Since that year, she’s had a clean record. Last New Year’s, the Covey 
even played at the base commander’s party, though Lenore Dove wasn’t 


thrilled about it. Clerk Carmine said a job’s a job, and music can be a bridge 
to better understanding between people because most everybody loves a 
good tune. Lenore Dove said most everybody loves breathing, too, and 
where did that get us? Some loves don’t signify. 

Comments like that make me feel like she’s still got the potential to 
make trouble, and that side of her is just laying low. 

I’m not sure what I’d have done yesterday if the roles had been 
reversed. I’d have wanted to follow Lenore Dove, maybe stowed away on 
the train and helped her escape or died trying. Or at least burned the 
Peacekeepers’ base to the ground. But in reality, whatever plans I might 
have concocted would’ve been kept in check by the thought of Ma and Sid 
trying to get by without me. I’d probably just have gone quietly insane. It’s 
different for her. No one depends on Lenore Dove for their livelihood. She 
can run as wild as the wind. 

After an hour or so, Peacekeepers drop off two nut butter sandwiches 
and my first banana. While I wouldn’t call it fruit — too starchy and 
juiceless — it tastes pretty good. I wash it down with a bottle of water filled 
with bubbles, which seems like a stupid thing to do to water, since I just 
burp them all up anyway. 

The Peacekeepers pull the curtains back and I can see everybody’s 
been given the same prep. Some of those Careers had full beards earlier, but 
they look younger and less scary clean-shaven. Losing the chest hair didn’t 
hurt either. 

Juvenia arrives with a woman pushing a rack of fancy clothes, and the 
District 1 prep teams trot after them into the boys’ locker room to get ready 
for the chariot procession that’s the centerpiece of the opening ceremonies. 
The Peacekeepers unchain their tributes and take them in. In a few minutes, 
the same routine plays out with District 2 and the girls’ locker room. A half 
hour later, the District 1 tributes, looking almost Capitol in green ball 
gowns and sparkling suits, parade across the gym. 

As they pass us, Maysilee says loudly, “Looking good, Silka! I hope 
we all get to wear snot green!” 

Laughter breaks out around the gym. Silka, who must have eight 
inches and a hundred pounds on Maysilee, starts for her, only to get a swift 
baton to the ribs from a Peacekeeper. Silka looks at Maysilee and draws her 
finger across her throat. 


Maysilee pouts back. “Now, pretty is as pretty does. How about a 
smile?” 

Louella grins at me from her table. “They did not hit it off in the 
locker room.” 

“Not a fan of One myself,” I admit, watching them head to their van 
as District 2 struts by in purple leather and studs. 

“Where are they all going?” I hear someone ask. 

“To their photo shoots,” a Peacekeeper answers. “Then the chariots.” 

The teams for 3 and 4 appear next, and I know we’|l be last. The place 
slowly empties out. Proserpina, who’s sporting freshly dyed puffs, and 
Vitus, cranky because his mother’s turned his bedroom into a bar for the 
party, return. The District 11 tributes get whisked away by their stylist just 
as Drusilla comes clacking across the gym floor in her platform boots, fur 
hat tucked under her arm. 

“Where’s that idiot Magno?” she asks my team. They shrug 
helplessly. “He’s making us late for one of the biggest parties of the year!” 

She’s all about the parties, our escort. 

Another ten minutes pass. “I need to take a piss,” I say. 

The Peacekeepers uncuff us and bring us into the girls’ locker room, 
where we get to relieve ourselves. Still no Magno. I sit next to Louella on a 
bench. They fixed up her braids and gave her dramatic eyebrows. 
Maysilee’s blond locks are in a fountain of tight curls, which somehow suits 
her, and Wyatt looks exactly the same as before his prep. 

“If he doesn’t come, do we get to skip the chariot part?” asks Louella. 
“Or do we just go wrapped up in paper?” 

No one seems to have considered that. Suddenly, everybody panics, 
including me. As much as I reject all of this, I don’t want to make my big 
entrance in a paper sheet. If I’m to stand any kind of chance, if I’m to get 
sponsors, I can’t go out there with my rear end hanging in the breeze. 

“Where’s the dress I came in?” demands Maysilee. “I can pin it back 
together.” 

“Already burned,” says a Peacekeeper. 

With the clock running out, Drusilla orders the prep teams to lend us 
pieces of their own outfits. I’m trying to squeeze into Vitus’s blue velvet 
shorts when our stylist rolls in with a plastic bag slung over his shoulder. 


Magno Stift’s sun-leathered skin has been tattooed with a snakeskin 
pattern. He wears a long shirt made of metal diamonds and no visible pants. 
His sandals lace all the way up to his pelvis, and from each of his ears 
dangle tiny, living garter snakes that twist and turn in misery. 

“You know those have been banned!” steams Drusilla. “I?ll report 
you.” 

“Oh, Drusie, they’ ll be dead in a few hours anyway,” says Magno. He 
dumps the contents of his bag on the floor, revealing a half dozen of the 
Same costumes I’ve seen on District 12 tributes for as long as I can 
remember. He lifts his arms in mock triumph. “Now, who’s ready to knock 
them dead?” 

We’re all so stressed that even these hand-me-down outfits are 
snatched up, which I’m sure is how Magno planned it all along. I climb into 
a pair of smelly black miner overalls held together with safety pins and 
strap on a cheap plastic coal miner hat without complaint. The boots pinch 
my toes, but I lace them up, relieved to have any footwear at all. 

Only Drusilla holds him to account. “What happened to their shining 
new look?” 

With a flourish, Magno flips on the light in Maysilee’s hat. The weak 
beam barely registers. “Ta-da! I replaced the batteries.” 

“And this is what you brought for the Quarter Quell? If this doesn’t 
get you axed, I don’t know what will,” Drusilla says with satisfaction. 

Magno just laughs. “No one cares about Twelve. Especially you. Get 
these brats chained up and to the stables. My job here is done.” 

We hightail it out of there and into the waiting van, which speeds 
through the Capitol streets, horn blaring. It’s not enough to drown out a 
booming version of the anthem, which they must be blasting out citywide. 
The Hunger Games opening ceremonies have begun without us. As the 
anthem ends, we screech to a halt and the van doors fly open, revealing the 
inside of a cavernous stable, its high roof supported by concrete pillars. 
Handlers are trying to wrangle forty-eight costumed tributes into twelve 
chariots while harnessing the horses meant to pull us through the streets. 
Everybody’s shouting, and nobody’s listening. 

Parade music begins, the grand stable doors open, and the District 1 
tributes pose for photographers before rolling onto the avenue to the roar of 


the crowd. A photographer runs up and snaps our picture repeatedly, then 
vanishes. Was that our photo shoot? Us chained up in the van? 

Drusilla appears to boss around the handlers. “Get District Twelve 
mounted!” 

We’re unchained, freed of our cuffs, and hauled to a rickety chariot 
drawn by a quartet of skittish gray nags. My eyes sweep the stable, 
confirming my suspicions. Everybody looks better than us. The other 
tributes have new district-themed costumes —sexy red cowboy suits for 
District 10, shimmering deep sea—blue mermaid suits for District 4, 
iridescent gray coveralls with wheel-shaped crowns for District 6. Their 
chariots are tricked out, some menacing, others elegant, all of them eye- 
catching. Their glossy horses sport matching plumes and flowers, while 
ours are bareheaded. 

The cart’s much too small for the four of us. The horses dance 
nervously, jerking it around, making it treacherous to climb on. As one of 
them rears, Louella stumbles backward. 

“Easy there,” I say, catching her. “You got this.” 

“T don’t think I do.” Her knees give way and she sinks to the floor. 

Drusilla yells at her. “On your feet, missy!” 

I pull Louella up. “Look at me,” I say. “In every way, you are a 
thousand times better than anybody in the Capitol. You are loved better, 
raised better, and a whole lot better company. You are the best ally I could 
ever hope for. Okay, sweetheart?” 

She nods and straightens up. “You and me to the end. Right, Hay?” 

“You and me to the end,” I promise. 

“Girls in front!” directs Drusilla. 

Maysilee and Louella climb in the chariot and grab hold of the front 
railing. Wyatt and I follow and brace ourselves on the sides. Presentation 
takes a back seat to preservation as we try to maintain our footing. One of 
our horses bucks, banging a hoof into the cart and giving a shrill neigh. 
We’re supposed to be moving forward, but it’s all they can do to keep our 
team in check. The District 11 chariot disappears out the door before they 
finally release us. 

We’re late, but what can we do? The horses are supposedly trained to 
cover the parade route at a stately pace without guidance. Ours head straight 
into the night air without pausing, bypassing our second photo op. 


For the first hundred yards or so, the nags get their act together and 
trot along in time to the music. I look up at one of the giant screens above 
the packed stands lining the avenue and see myself in my crappy costume, 
hunched over the railing. Long shot, I think, and force myself to stand up 
straighter. 

The crowd looks drunk to a person, hooting and hollering, red-faced 
and sweating. People chuck bottles and trash at us. Some puke over the 
barricade set up along the parade route. For all their finery, the audience 
smells like the gang at the Hob on a rough Saturday night, a mix of 
perspiration, raw liquor, and vomit. 

A guy trying to jab Maysilee with his cane face-plants onto the 
avenue and loses a front tooth. A near-naked woman makes lewd gestures 
at me. It’s hard to ignore the mob, but District 12 is hanging in there until 
someone launches a firework that spirals right in front of our chariot and 
explodes in a burst of blue. 

Our horses lose it, plunging to the side and fighting to stay vertical. 
I’m knocked to my knees, but manage to keep hold of the railing as our 
team breaks into a run. The crowd’s going wild as we veer around the 
District 11 chariot and narrowly miss colliding with District 10, whose team 
also goes rogue. I want to protect Louella, but it’s all I can do to hang on as 
we go thundering down the avenue. 

Everything’s a blur — the audience, the ground, the other chariots 
trying to clear out of our way. A siren wails, and I catch sight of red lights 
spinning, but all this seems to do is whip our team into a frenzy. I remember 
the parade ends at the circular drive that leads to President Snow’s mansion, 
so I know we can’t run forever, but how will we stop? 

I look down as the spiked wheels of the District 6 chariot close in on 
ours, and I have my answer. I see the sparks, feel the axles shredding, and 
lunge for Louella, hoping to brace her. She’s reaching for me just as the 
wheel collapses and we’re catapulted into the air. Next thing I know, I’m 
lying on the ground, my hand in a puddle of blood as the lights of the 
Capitol flash like fireflies above me. 

This is better, I tell myself. Better than dying in the arena. Better than 
weasels and starvation and swords. 

I’m embracing that when I realize the blood isn’t mine. That fate isn’t 
mine. And the tribute who’s escaped the arena is Louella. 


> 


A dead mockingjay chick, eyes still bright, feathers blue-black in the 
sunlight, clawed feet empty, on a bed of moss. Lenore Dove stroked its 
plumage with her fingertip. “Poor baby . . . poor little bird... who will sing 
your songs now?” 

Louella looks so tiny, so still in the chaos around us. A fine job I did 
protecting her. Dead before we even made it to the arena. Who will sing 
your songs now, Louella? 

I’m winded by the impact of the fall, bruised for sure, but nothing 
obviously broken. “Louella?” I say as I kneel over her. Knowing it’s 
useless, I attempt to rouse her, try to find her pulse, but she has flown her 
body. Her vacant eyes confirm this as I slide the lids closed. One of her 
braids rests in the blood leaking from the back of her skull, which cracked 
open when she hit the pavement. The penciled black eyebrows jump out 
from her drained face. I arrange her braids, lick my thumb, and wipe a drop 
of blood from her cheek. 

The shaft that connected our cart to the team apparently snapped, and 
our horses are long gone, leaving a trail of wreckage. Wyatt and Maysilee, 
who managed to hang on to the railings, extricate themselves from the ruins 
of our chariot, beat-up but alive. Wyatt picks up Louella’s hat, which must 


have fallen off when we were thrown. As they join us, neither one has to 
ask if Louella’s dead. 

Maysilee pulls off one of her necklaces, a heavy strand of beads 
woven into purple and yellow flowers. “I was going to give her this. For her 
token. So she’d have something from home.” She kneels down, and I lift 
Louella’s crushed skull while she places the beads around her neck. Fresh 
blood seeps into my hand. 

“Thanks,” I say. “She likes flowers.” I can’t speak of her in the past, 
not while she’s warm and close. 

“They’re coming to get her,” warns Wyatt. 

I see four Peacekeepers making a beeline for us amidst the medics and 
handlers and dazed tributes. They want to take Louella away, to hide her 
tidily in a wooden box along with their crimes, and ship her home to 
District 12. They don’t want to feature this death on the Capitol’s watch, 
unplanned and highlighting their incompetence. This is not the blood they 
want to paint their posters with. 

I scoop Louella up in my arms and begin to back away. 

“It’s no use,” Wyatt says. “They’II still take her.” 

“She doesn’t belong to them,” snaps Maysilee. “Don’t just hand her 
over. Make them fight for her. Run!” 

So I do. And I’m a fast runner. The only kid who can beat me in 
footraces at school is Woodbine Chance. Well, he used to anyway. I run for 
Louella, but I run for Woodbine, too, because he’ |! never run again. I have 
no idea where I’m going. I only know that I do not want to give Louella to 
the Capitol. Maysilee’s right. She doesn’t belong to them at all. 

Dodging any white Peacekeeper uniform, I weave past red-streaked 
bodies, past the wrecked District 6 chariot. Apparently, their horses leaped 
the barricades and plowed into the crowd. Medics swarm around, shouting 
and carrying stretchers with Capitol people, leaving the injured District 6 
tributes where they fell. 

My escape path leads me farther down the avenue toward the 
president’s mansion. Several of the chariots are pulled over along the 
parade route. It’s a clear shot to the mansion, but I’1] never make it. The 
Peacekeepers’ shouts get closer. Louella’s growing heavy. My toes blister in 
the tight boots. My chest aches and I haven’t drawn a full breath since I hit 


the ground. What difference does it make, me handing her over now or 
later? 

Some of the big screens over the crowd have gone to the waving flag, 
but a handful of others still display the parade route. I catch sight of myself 
on one. Louella looks peaceful, like she’s asleep in my arms. If this is still 
being recorded and possibly aired, at least in the Capitol, maybe it does 
make a difference if I resist as best I can. Maybe this is where I paint my 
own poster. 

Ahead I spot the District 1 chariot, a glimmering golden thing drawn 
by snow-white horses. The tributes have dismounted and stand off to the 
side, except Panache, who’s pulling on the bridles of the horses. “Come 
on,” he yells at them. “Move it!” He no doubt wants to continue the parade, 
to be the only tribute who makes it to the president’s mansion by chariot. A 
grand entrance for a future victor. But the horses resist, stamping their feet 
and throwing back their heads. Silka removes one of her fancy stiletto heels 
and begins to beat the flank of the outside horse, drawing blood. The horse 
neighs in pain and kicks, throwing the team into confusion. Silka’s knocked 
to the ground and Panache has to dive sideways to avoid being trampled. 

Peacekeepers on my tail, my arms giving out, I seize the moment and 
spring into the chariot just as the horses’ distress overcomes their training. 
Panache had a great idea, and now I’m stealing it right out from under him. 
I want to be the tribute who arrives by chariot, and I want Louella to be 
with me, for all to see. 

As the team jumps forward, I get tossed into the railing, letting it bear 
some of Louella’s weight. I hear Panache’s howl of rage behind me but 
ignore him. The horses resume their normal pace and I manage to straighten 
up. I lost my cheesy imitation coal miner hat in the accident and, rid of the 
headgear, our outfits become merely neutral, black and forgettable. Our 
tokens catch the eye — Louella’s bright beaded necklace, my exquisite flint 
striker. For the first time, in the gorgeous rig, with our fine ornaments, we 
look like tributes of consequence. Not long shots. Or at least long shots you 
might consider sponsoring. A shame one of us is dead. 

The horses come to a stop directly under the balcony. I look up and 
freeze, too intimidated to breathe. President Snow. Not on a screen, but in 
the flesh. The most powerful and, therefore, the most brutal person in 
Panem. He stands calm and erect, surveying the calamity of the opening 


ceremony. His head dips slightly and a lacquered silvery blond curl falls 
onto his forehead. Our eyes meet, and a smile plays on his lips. No anger, 
no outrage, and certainly no fear. I have not impressed him with my 
performance. The reckless mountain boy with the dead girl in his arms 
seems foolish, a trifle amusing, and nothing more. 

Something steels inside me, and I think, You are on a high horse, 
mister. And someday someone will knock you off it straight into your grave. 
I dismount the chariot and lay Louella down, taking a step back so Snow 
can’t pretend he doesn’t see her broken little bird body. Then I gesture to 
him and begin to applaud, giving credit where credit is due. 

Spin this, Plutarch, I think. 

Suddenly, the president’s expression changes. He turns his attention to 
the screen to my right, which features a shot of me from the waist up, 
clapping. His fingers move to the signature white rose in his lapel, 
straightening it as he looks down again. The blue eyes narrow, but he’s not 
focused on my face. Is he looking at the flint striker? 

I’m grabbed from behind and dragged away. Medics descend on 
Louella, but I know there’s no bringing her back. I hate leaving her behind, 
but what would I do with her, even if I held on to her? Did her family get to 
see her send-off? Did mine? But they wouldn’t have shown this in 12. They 
probably cut out when our horses bolted. 

I struggle for a bit, then feel I’m working too hard. Going limp, I 
make the Peacekeepers tow me down the long road back to the stable. They 
catch on and flip me around, cuff me, and make me walk myself. That’s 
when I become aware of the crowd, still in the stands, and hear the voices 
shouting. 

“Hey, you, where are you from?” 

“Over here, boy! What’s your name?” 

“Twelve, right? Are you from Twelve, kid?” 

That catches my attention. Me? Are they talking to me? My head 
twists from side to side. 

“Speak up, boy! Can't sponsor you if we don’t know who you are!” 

These people want to sponsor me? Send me food and supplies in the 
arena? Then bet on me like a starved dog in a fight? Maybe I should be 
grateful, or at least smart, but it’s impossible with Louella’s blood coating 
my hands. I hawk and send spit directly at a man’s face, which is bloated 


and twinkling with tiny embedded mirrors. It lands on his cheek, and the 
crowd roars with laughter. 

“You tell him!” 

“T like your Style!” 

“Haymitch or Wyatt? Which are you?” 

That last from some woman who wears a bird’s nest on her head. She 
waves her Hunger Games program, which has a shiny gold 50 against a 
background of the flag of Panem on the cover. I’m working up another 
loogie when one of my guards warns, “Enough of that.” I spit anyway. He 
elbows me hard in the side and the crowd cheers, I’m not even sure for 
who. 

Fed up, the Peacekeepers toss me into a chariot filled with the District 
4A tributes, and I get to ride to the stable holding on to some guy’s fake 
trident so I don’t get tossed out again. He’s not supportive of this, and we 
barely make it back before he shoves the butt of it into my solar plexus and 
I’m on the ground again. 

“Nice one, Urchin,” laughs a girl from 4, flipping her fishtail at me as 
they walk away. 

Doesn’t seem to be any particular reason to get up, so I just lie there, 
not caring if I get trampled or not. The memory of Louella’s lifeless body 
under Snow’s balcony has burned itself onto the back of my eyelids. Seems 
like that’s all P’ll ever see again. 

Things settle down as the place begins to empty out. No one’s in any 
rush to move an unruly District 12 tribute, though. After a while, Maysilee 
appears above me, her fountain of curls drooping to one side of her head. 
“Well, you got the last word tonight, Mr. Abernathy.” 

“Did I? What exactly did I say again, Miss Donner?” 

“Don’t mess with District Twelve.” 

Half my mouth manages a smile. “Scared them pretty good, you 
reckon?” 

“I don’t. But at least now they know we’re here.” She helps me to my 
feet. “I’d rather be despised than ignored.” 

Wyatt walks up. “Nice work with the crowd. Should bring you a few 
sponsors. Our odds have improved slightly with the crash. All of District 
Six is injured. Ten’s beat up, too.” 

I resist the impulse to hit him. “And Louella’s dead.” 


“Yes, but it’s unlikely Louella would have killed any of us. And as an 
undersized thirteen-year-old from Twelve, she barely factored into the 
rankings anyway,” says Wyatt. 

I stare at him, amazed by his coldness. “Just what odds do you think 
your pa’s giving on you winning, Wyatt?” 

Shame creeps across his face. But he only says, “About forty to one.” 

“So, if you’re the victor, and I’d bet a dollar on you, I’d get forty 
dollars back?” 

“Forty-one, minus the Booker Boy fee.” 

“Guess you are a long shot, for your pa to hold you so cheap,” I say. 

“Never pretended otherwise.” Wyatt turns and walks over to our van, 
one of the few still left in the stable. 

“Boy, that was mean, even by my standards,” Maysilee says to me. 
“You can’t choose your parents.” 

“You could reject their business,” I point out. 

“T couldn’t,” says Maysilee. “I was going to spend the rest of my life 
behind that candy counter, no matter how much I hated it. And I’m guessing 
you’d have been wearing miner’s overalls to your grave. We never, none of 
us, had any choices.” 

She follows Wyatt to the van, leaving me to ponder the possibility that 
I’ve out-meaned Maysilee. Not something to be proud of. But neither is 
factoring Louella’s death into our odds. Her body’s not even cold, and he’s 
reduced her to a number. But she was not a number, she was a little girl I 
met on the day she was born when Mr. McCoy, his face alight with joy, held 
her up at the window for all us kids to see. A terrible, dark grief begins to 
well up inside me, threatening to drown me, but I force it back down. 
Swallow the sadness, clamp a lid on it, dam it up. They will not use my 
tears for their entertainment. 

The effort leaves me dizzy, so I sit against a pillar and watch the birds 
flitting around the rafters. Horses and chariots disappear into the depths of 
the stable. Tributes straggle in from the avenue and join up with their 
districts. A couple of Peacekeepers stroll around, cuffing the strays. They 
give me the eye but leave me be. 

I find myself staring up at an electronic board that lists all the tributes. 
We don’t seem to rate last names. 


SECOND QUARTER QUELL 
TRIBUTE ROSTER 


DISTRICT 1 
B- Pana 
o che 


G_ Silka 


B- Loupe 


G_ Carat 


DISTRICT 2 


B_ Alphe 
O us 


G Cami 
r_ lla 


Janus 


Nona 


FQ <cob 


DISTRICT 3 


B Amp 
Oo ert 


B_- Lect 


DISTRICT 4 
B~ Urch 


DISTRICT 5 


Hyc 
hel 


Anio 


DISTRICT 6 


Mile 


DISTRICT 7 


Bircher 


Autumn 


Poe Yh TEN. Se 0 Og 


Heartw 
ood 


Ringina 


Sey. SS By 


DISTRICT 8 
B_ Wefto 


Alaw 


DISTRICT 9 


Ryan 


DISTRICT 10 


Buc 
k 


DISTRICT 11 


B- Hull 

O 

y 

G_ Chico 
ir ry 

l 

B Tile 

O 

y 

G_ Bloss 
ir om 

l 
DISTRICT 12 
B Watt 
O 

y 

G Maysil 
ir ee 

l 

B- Haymi 
o tch 

y 

G_ Louell 
ir a 

l 


Forty-eight kids. Minus one. I will never remember all of their names. 
Doubt they will remember mine. There are just too many of us. 

A boy in electric-blue coveralls, about Sid’s size, comes up to me, his 
handcuffs jingling a little. Another lamb for the slaughter. “Hi, I’m Ampert. 


I’m from Three.” 

I look behind him, but he’s unchaperoned. Probably a bigger long shot 
than I am. I can’t imagine what he wants but I hope someone would be 
friendly to my brother under these circumstances, so I say, “Hi, Ampert. 
I’m Haymitch. How old are you?” 

“Twelve. You?” 

“T tumed sixteen yesterday.” 

“That stinks.” He squats down beside me and fiddles with his cuffs. “I 
could open these in a jiffy if I had a hairpin.” 

I smile at his bragging. “Or a key.” 

“You sound like my father. He’ll laugh when I tell him that.” 

I could point out that Ampert will never see his father again, but I’ve 
already exceeded my meanness quota for the day. It’s kinder to humor him. 
I take a safety pin from my overalls and hold it out. “Try that, buddy.” 

His face lights up like he just got a new toy. He pops open the pin and 
begins to wiggle the point in a cuff lock. “They don’t really teach us this in 
school. They focus on the technology we use in the factories. But my 
mother taught me. She’s the mechanical one. I know lots of things that 
should be useful in an arena. If you’d like to be my ally.” 

So that’s it. His fellow district tributes have rejected him, and he’s on 
the hunt for someone more pathetic than he is. A District 12 coal miner 
seems a likely candidate. 

I tell him, “I had an ally, and she’s already dead.” 

“I'm sorry. I thought she was just knocked out. Louella McCoy, right? 
She’s the one you made President Snow own?” 

Well, I’ll say this for Ampert — he doesn’t miss a beat. “The thing is, 
Ampert, I don’t know that I’m really ally material. I think you can do better. 
Why don’t you go back and ask your district tributes to team up with you?” 

“Oh, they already have. But I’m trying to build an alliance to counter 
the Careers. I’ve got all of Seven and Eight on board, and Eleven’s thinking 
it over.” He gives a final twist and the left cuff falls off his wrist. He holds 
up the pin in triumph. “Told you!” 

“Whoa!” I exclaim. “How’d you do that?” 

“T’d teach you if we had more time.” Ampert pops the cuff back on 
before anyone else notices and pockets the safety pin. “If you change your 


mind, I’ll be around.” He scampers off, and I can see him reporting back to 
the other District 3 tributes, who crane their necks to check me out. 

I don’t know what that kid needs me for. Not my brain. Maybe, like 
Hattie, he thinks I’d make a good mule. But my ally days began and ended 
with Louella. 

When I’m the last tribute left, a Peacekeeper orders me inside the van. 
She chains up me, Maysilee, and Wyatt, then looks around and frowns. 
“Where’s your escort and your stylist? Your mentors?” 

None of us answer. We don’t know, and why should we? 

Another Peacekeeper speaks up. “Drusilla took a powder after the 
crash. Magno Stift never showed.” She consults a clipboard. “And I don’t 
even see a mentor listed for Twelve.” 

“What are we supposed to do with them?” asks the first. “I’m off-duty 
in ten. There’s an after-party for my squad, and I’m the only one who can 
make a good rum punch.” 

“Can’t leave them here. Take them to their quarters, I guess. Let them 
figure it out.” 

The door closes and the engine rumbles to life. In the pitch black of 
the van, I lean my head back against the wall. All the miseries of the last 
two days can no longer be denied: the throbbing headache from the rifle 
butt at the reaping, the terror of the tasing, the heartbreak of my loved ones’ 
good-byes, the toxic shower, the humiliating parade before Panem, the 
chariot crash, and worst of all, the horror of being soaked in Louella’s 
blood. Everything hurts, inside and out. 

We’re unloaded on a street lined with candy-colored apartment 
buildings. The disgruntled Peacekeeper leads us past armed guards into a 
lobby with fake wood paneling and onto an elevator that smells like old 
socks and cheap perfume. She turns a key in the slot marked 12 and uncuffs 
us on the ride up. “We’ve been told your mentors are waiting for you here. 
They said no cuffs, but there are Peacekeepers a buzzer away and there are 
cameras everywhere.” She nods to one in the corner of the elevator. No 
attempt has been made to conceal it. They want you to know they’re 
watching. Or think they’re watching, even if no one is. 

“No Peacekeepers, no peace,” I mutter. 

The Peacekeeper gives a sharp nod. “Exactly.” 


When the doors open, she pushes us out into an entryway. A framed 
painting of a white poodle in a tuxedo hangs over a small table holding a 
bowl of wax oranges. “They’re all yours!” she shouts, and the elevator 
doors close. 

We stand abandoned, under the poodle’s critical eye, waiting for the 
next round of abuse. In the quiet, I become aware of a familiar scent. It’s 
the bean and ham hock soup my ma makes when someone dies. It can’t be, 
of course. But still, with Louella’s loss so new, something begins to unravel 
inside me. The tears I’ve been saving up since the reaping fill my eyes. This 
infuriates me, and I blink hard to hold them back. 

Soft footfalls approach and a small young woman appears. I recognize 
her immediately. The black-haired girl from District 3 who won last year’s 
Hunger Games. “Hello, I’m Wiress. One of your mentors.” 

It was an arena full of shiny surfaces. Lakes that reflected the sky, 
clouds that returned the favor, and everywhere, boulders and caves and 
cliffs overlaid with mirrors. When the tributes were lifted into the arena, 
they couldn’t get their bearings. Every which way they turned, tributes in 
shimmering tunics stared back at them. 

Watching back in 12, Sid had whispered, “I can’t hardly look at this. 
Makes my eyes cross.” 

If it was disorienting to view from the outside, it was 
incomprehensible within. A giant silver Cornucopia held a bounty of 
supplies, but even navigating a path to it proved treacherous. A tribute 
would reach for a weapon and get a handful of air, leap into a clearing and 
smack into a wall, or dodge an attacker only to run straight onto their 
sword. 

Most of the tributes went nuts, but not Wiress. She took it all in, then 
carefully maneuvered away from the Cornucopia, somehow finding packs 
of supplies where none appeared to be. Eventually, a clumsy bloodbath 
ensued, but she was long gone at that point, exploring the arena bit by bit, 
until she settled on a rock jutting out over a lake, in full view of her 
competitors. Except .. . they never were able to see her. She’d found a blind 
spot, and although they’d come raging within a few feet of her, she avoided 
detection. She just sat there, quiet as a mouse, eating, drinking from the 
lake, and sleeping curled up in a ball. 


The funny thing, if anything can be called funny in a Hunger Games, 
was watching the Gamemakers attempting to deliver her sponsor gifts, 
which they repeatedly failed to do. They were as blind to her spot as the 
tributes. And while they joked about it, you could see they were 
embarrassed to have a girl from District 3 understand their arena better than 
they did. 

When the field cleared, it was down to Wiress and a boy from District 
6. Wiress finally stood up, revealing herself, and the boy leaped for what he 
thought was her, cracked his head, and drowned in the lake. The victor’s 
hovercraft flew around for about an hour trying to locate her before she 
walked back to the Cornucopia for a ride. Later, when asked how she’d 
figured out her strategy, she replied, “I followed the light beams.” More 
than that, she could not, or would not, say. You wanted to cheer for her, 
given that she’d outsmarted the Gamemakers, but she was just too 
unnerving. 

So, of course, they gave her to us. We always get the leftovers. Filthy 
costumes, broken-down nags, and now her. I try to roll with it, but it pisses 
me off. I don’t want Wiress for a mentor. She’s just another bizarre person 
to deal with when I’m already scraped raw. How can a girl who follows 
light beams help me anyway? How can a girl who left the arena without a 
scratch teach me how to protect myself? How can a girl who has fought no 
one, killed no one, mentored no one, mentor me? She can’t, that’s all. 

I’m fixing to say as much when a second woman arrives. It takes a 
moment to place her. She’s older, probably near Hattie’s age. Then I 
remember a Games from when I was little, and a hysterical boy dressed in a 
suit made of seashells, who’d just been crowned in front of the entire nation 
of Panem. The hysteria had triggered when they’d played the recap of the 
Games, showing all twenty-three of his competitors’ deaths. And this 
woman had held the boy and done her best as his mentor to shield him from 
the cameras, which were devouring every awful bit of it. 

It’s Mags, a victor from District 4. She looks at me sadly, knowingly, 
and then opens up her arms and says, “I’m so sorry about Louella, 
Haymitch.” 

For a moment, I teeter between anger and grief. But the dam finally 
breaks. I step into her embrace, drop my head on her shoulder, and begin to 


cry. 


> 


I don’t cry much in general. Only when people die, and then I cry 
hard and fast and ugly, which is what I do now. Because Louella is dead and 
I was supposed to look out for her and I didn’t. And while Lenore Dove will 
forever be my true love, Louella is my one and only sweetheart. 

Mags just holds me while sobs rack my body and tears and snot drip 
onto her shoulder. Wiress takes Maysilee and Wyatt farther into the 
apartment, giving us a moment. “I’m sorry,” I choke out. But Mags shakes 
her head and just keeps patting my back. 

When I calm down some, she leads me through the apartment to a 
bathroom where a tub of steaming water awaits. She hands me a bag, 
saying, “Put your costume in here. Magno wants it back. Then bathe and 
join us.” 

When Mags goes, closing the door behind her, I throw a towel over 
the camera for some privacy, not caring at all if they punish me for it. Then 
I strip off the vile costume and shove it into the bag. Hot baths are a Sunday 
ritual in my house, cold water buckets doing for the rest of the week since it 
takes a lot of pumping and heating to fill our tin washtub. This deep 
porcelain version, nearly full to the brim, the creamy bar of soap, and the 
liquid shampoo are undreamed-of luxuries. I sink down into the tub, letting 


the heat envelop my body, as plumes of Louella’s blood tint the pristine 
water pink. 

I shut my eyes and try to empty my mind, so there is only warmth, 
and the murmur of distant voices, and the smell of soup mingled with the 
light flowery scent of the soap. This is all the world is. Nothing more. I 
must lie like that for a long time, because the water’s cool and my fingertips 
wrinkly when I open my eyes again. I drain the tub and have a good scrub 
under the shower, cleansing myself of the insecticide, the road dirt, and the 
last traces of Louella’s life. 

After drying myself with the big cushy towel, I pull on the underwear 
and the plain black shirt and pants left for me, and slide my feet into a new 
pair of boots. As I open the bathroom door, I try to decide if I should feel 
embarrassed about my outburst, and realize I don’t give a hang what anyone 
thinks anyway. 

The apartment, which has a strange, impersonal quality, has been 
decorated by someone whose taste runs to fluffy things and burnt orange. 
The kitten and puppy knickknacks seem at odds with the bars on the 
windows. I follow my nose to the kitchen, where Mags, Wiress, and Wyatt 
sit around the table, eating. 

“Join us,” Mags says. “Your friend’s in her bath now.” I’m too tired to 
correct her about the status of my relationship with Maysilee — classmate 
seems more appropriate. She ladles out a giant bowl of what is, in fact, bean 
and ham hock soup. 

“Mags ordered this specially from the kitchen,” says Wiress. 

“T did. It’s comforting, I think.” Mags sets the bowl in front of me. 

“Tt is.” I snuff up the steam, thinking about my twin sisters, and Pa, 
and Mamaw. And now Louella. I take a spoonful and let the taste of home 
course through me, strengthening me for what’s to come. “What is this 
place anyway?” I ask. 

“Tt’s an apartment designed for temporary rentals. They’ ve reserved it 
to hold the tributes this year,” says Mags. 

“We stayed in barracks last year, all twenty-four of us. This is more 
private,” adds Wiress. 

“Wouldn’t call the bathroom private. I hung my towel over the 
camera.” 


“Those were just installed for the tributes. It’s impossible to tell when 
they’re watching,” says Mags. “But it will all be recorded.” 

Wyatt pushes back from the table. “Guess I?ll get my bath now.” 

I want to say, I’m sorry about what I said earlier. About your pa 
taking bets on you. But I haven’t got the energy, so I let him go without a 
word. 

My mentors let me eat in silence — soup, white bread and butter, and 
a big piece of peach pie to finish. I’m afraid they’re going to launch into a 
strategy session, but Mags only says, “Why don’t you go to bed now, 
Haymitch? We can talk in the morning.” 

She takes me to a room with two beds covered with fuzzy orange 
spreads, each with a pair of pajamas on it, and bids me good night. I 
change, slide in between the sheets thinking I’1l never fall asleep, and go 
out like a light. 

Lenore Dove says my dreams are like windows into my mind, too 
clear to need interpretation. Which is a nice way to say really obvious. 
Tonight, they center on fearful things that have happened — blown-up 
heads and chariot crashes — and fearful things I dread will happen in the 
coming days. Since I don’t know exactly what I’ll encounter when the gong 
sounds to start the Games, my brain borrows from past arenas. Weapons. 
Starvation. Mutts. The first two are ancient evils, but muttations, or mutts 
for short, are genetic atrocities created in the lab to entertain the blood- 
hungry Capitol audience. Like the face-eating weasels or, in Wiress’s arena, 
the shiny silver beetles that swarmed the tributes, suffocating them. My 
brain fixates on the latter. 

As the beetles suck the oxygen from my lungs, I wake up gasping. 
Wyatt snores in the other bed. That alone makes me think I was right about 
him not being my ally. How’s he going to stay hidden in the arena if he’s 
sawing logs like that? Of course, he was fake-snoring on the train when he 
eavesdropped on me and Louella. I look at him hard, but he appears to be 
dead to the world for real. 

I could get up but I stay under the covers, grateful for some time to 
collect my thoughts. Things have unfolded so fast. I still can’t completely 
wrap my head around the fact that Louella’s gone. And now I have an offer 
from Ampert, who I couldn’t help but like. I’m intrigued by his idea of a 
non-Career pack. I wonder if he’d take Wyatt and Maysilee as well. He 


doesn’t seem too particular. The tributes from Districts 7 and 8 are nothing 
special. He must be going for quantity over quality. Although 11... that 
might be a game changer. ... 

Still, I don’t know about teaming up with them. Maybe I’ll ask Mags 
what she thinks. Funny to have someone from 4 — a Career — as a mentor. 
Although she must’ve been a tribute early on and maybe there weren’t 
always Careers. As for Wiress . . . I shouldn’t judge her so harshly. If I 
could outsmart everybody the way she did without lifting a finger, of course 
I’d do it. But that seems more like something Ampert could pull off. 

The smell of fried food gets me out of bed. I pull my clothes from last 
night back on and head to the kitchen. Mags and Wiress sit like they haven’t 
been to bed, but the food has turned over. Big covered dishes of eggs, 
bacon, and crusty disks of potatoes set my mouth watering. 

“Good morning, Haymitch,” says Mags. “Please, help yourself.” 

I pile my plate high and stack a second with buttered toast and jam, 
pour glasses of juice and milk, but pass on the coffee. Again, they let me eat 
in peace, which I appreciate. Food always picks me up, so after a couple of 
platefuls, I think I might be able to survive the day. It’s going to take a lot of 
energy to face the Careers, especially Panache. Pretty sure he thinks I owe 
him a chariot. 

I’m sipping sugared hot tea when Maysilee comes in, dressed exactly 
like me, except for her necklaces. All in black, with her hair pulled from her 
face and her riding-crop marks, there’s something tough about her. Or 
maybe she’s always been tough, but the ruffles and bows just made her 
seem snooty. She’d look out of place behind the candy counter, which she 
clearly loathed. What did she dream of doing instead? 

“Good morning, Maysilee. How did you sleep?” asks Mags. 

“Better than the night before.” Maysilee pours herself a cup of black 
coffee and wraps her hands around it. 

“Aren’t you going to eat?” I ask. 

“I’m not a breakfast person.” 

You can see why she drives people nuts. If there’s breakfast available 
in the Seam, everybody’s just pleased to see it. I spread jam on another 
piece of toast. “That’s going to come in handy in the arena. Especially if 
you’re not a lunch or supper person either.” 


“Tf you can manage to get a bit more down in the next few days, it 
would be a good thing,” says Mags. 

Maysilee thinks about it, then serves herself a strip of bacon and takes 
a tiny bite. Not with her fingers, of course. I bet the Donners eat popcorn 
with a knife and fork. 

Wyatt joins us, sheet creases in his face, also dressed in black. 

“Nice outfit,” I say, trying to lighten things up between us a little. 

“Tt’s the same as yours,” he says defensively. 

“Do we have to go around dressed like triplets?” asks Maysilee. “It 
was bad enough being a twin.” 

The Donner girls have a wide selection of matching outfits. “Thought 
you liked that,” I say. 

“My mother likes that,” she corrects me. 

Huh. Maybe she loads up on the jewelry because it’s the only way she 
can be herself. 

“The Capitol provided this clothing,” says Mags. “Everyone will be 
dressed the same in training and the arena. But Magno should provide your 
interview costumes. Last year, he sent your district’s tributes out in their 
training outfits. He’s on probation for that, so, hopefully, he’s finding you 
something worthwhile. You’re due in training soon. Shall we begin?” 

I try to focus. This will likely be all the help we get. 

“I’ve mentored several times over the years,” Mags continues. “In the 
early Games, I didn’t ask the tributes what they wanted because the answer 
seemed so obvious. You want to live. But then I realized, there are many 
desires beyond that. Mine had to do with my district partner. Protecting 
him.” 

Wiress offers, “I remember I didn’t want to die at night. I didn’t want 
to die in darkness. The thought terrified me.” 

“So we’ll ask you now, what do you want?” says Mags. 

We sit in silence, each trying to formulate an answer. Yesterday, mine 
had to do with protecting Louella. Now I mainly think about the people I 
love, making my death as easy as possible for them. 

I say, “I don’t want my girl and my family to watch me die some long, 
horrible death. Like, I keep thinking about those weasel mutts a few years 
ago.... They’d never get over that.” 


“Yeah, if I’m going, I want to go fast,” says Wyatt. “I don’t want 
people who bet on my death being drawn out to make money on it.” 

It’s a shocking thought. “Would your family take bets on that?” I ask. 

Wyatt shrugs. “Somebody would. I’m sure somebody already has. On 
yours, too. That’s how it works.” 

“T don’t want to beg,” says Maysilee. “Or plead for my life. I want to 
go out with my head up.” 

After a pause, Mags asks, “All right. Anything else?” 

There is something else gnawing at the back of my brain. Something 
to do with Sarshee and Pa, with Lenore Dove’s rising sun, with Maysilee’s 
welts, and holding Louella up to the president. What was it Ampert said 
about Louella last night? “She’s the one you made President Snow own?” 

“T want all that, too. What you just said. But if I could, I’d also like 
to...” I glance at the camera in the corner. How do I say it when the 
Capitol might be watching? That I want to make the Capitol own what 
they’re doing to us? “I want to remind people I’m here because the Capitol 
won the war and thinks that, fifty years later, this is a fair way to punish the 
districts. But I’d like them to consider that fifty years is enough.” 

That sounded sufficiently diplomatic. I wait for them to laugh or roll 
their eyes, but no one does. 

“So you want to make them end the Hunger Games for good. How?” 
asks Maysilee. 

“T don’t know yet,” I admit. “I guess, for starters, by reminding the 
audience that we’re human beings. The way they talk about us... 
piglets ... beasts. They called my fingernails claws. You saw how those 
kids outside the gym looked at us. Like they think of us as animals. And 
they think of themselves as superior. So it’s okay to kill us. But the people 
in the Capitol aren’ better than us. Or smarter.” 

“Tf anything, they’re stupider,” says Maysilee, who clearly doesn’t 
give two hoots about the cameras. “Look at the mess they made with our 
reaping. The chariot parade. Or Wiress’s Games last year. They couldn’t 
even get her gifts to her. Show them something like that.” 

“Yeah, force them to admit we’re people, too,” says Wyatt. “And 
they’re the beasts for killing us.” 

“Right. But I’m not as clever as Wiress. I can’t outthink the arena,” I 
Say. 


“Maybe you can,” Wiress encourages me. “The arena’s just a machine 
really. A killing machine. It’s possible to outsmart it.” 

Wyatt rolls his coin over his knuckles. “The trick would be getting 
them to show it on camera.” 

“Tf it involves killing someone else, they’d show that,” says Maysilee. 

“Or killing yourself,” adds Wyatt. 

“Tt’s something to think over carefully. You could easily put yourself 
or your allies at risk,” warns Mags, nodding at Wyatt and Maysilee. 

“Oh, Haymitch doesn’t want us for allies,” says Wyatt. 

Really? That’s where he’s going? “Nice, Wyatt. So I’m the jerk? Not 
the meanest girl in town or the guy who sets the odds so scum can make 
bets on dead kids?” 

Mags gives me a worried look. “It’s a good thing to have allies. You 
may find yourselves gravitating toward one another anyway when you go 
into training.” 

Maysilee addresses Wyatt. “I could be your ally. If you’re not too 
choosy.” 

“Okay,” he says. 

Even though everything I said was true, I regret saying it. It’s not like 
I’m perfect. They both get under my skin, but I’m blaming them for too 
much. They didn’t kill Louella or pick me in the reaping or create the 
Hunger Games. I need to back off. Besides, if I’m going to paint a decent 
poster in the arena, I’ll need time, which allies could buy me. 

“Okay, look,” I tell them. “There’s this kid from Three, Ampert, who 
wants me to join his alliance. He’s got Seven and Eight. Eleven might be in. 
I don’t know if I’m doing it, but I can ask if they want you guys. I can tell 
him you’re both smart.” 

Maysilee gives a little shrug and Wyatt nods, saying, “Pack members 
have better odds. At least in the beginning. Someone to watch their backs.” 

I wish he’d shut up about odds. “I?ll keep that in mind. So, what’s 
training like?” 

“They’ ll be holding it at the gym where they groomed you,” Mags 
tells us. “There will be stations set up to allow you to prepare for what 
you’ll face in the arena. Don’t be distracted by what others are choosing; 
prioritize what you will need to survive.” 

“Some way to defend myself,” I say. 


“Or a good way to hide,” says Maysilee. 
“What’s most important?” asks Wyatt. 
Wiress breaks into a strange little song: 


First avoid the slaughter, 

Get weapons, look for water. 
Find food and where to sleep, 
Fire and friends can keep. 


“T made that up for myself. Most important to least. So I would have a 
plan in the arena. I knew I couldn’t fight in the bloodbath, which meant I 
had to get away from the Cornucopia quickly. I didn’t end up needing a 
weapon except my brain. But you likely will. The Cornucopia might be 
your chance to grab one. If not, make something, even if it’s just a pointed 
stick. Then find water. Water before food. You’ll die of thirst much more 
quickly than you will of hunger. But then food. Fire can be good for light 
and cooking and heat if it’s cold. But you might not need it at all and it 
could be dangerous if it reveals your position. Friends, for me, would have 
been very risky.” 

“But were at the top of my list,” says Mags. “You must decide for 
yourselves.” 

“What about building a shelter?” asks Wyatt. 

“There’s a good chance you’! be on the move,” Mags answers. “Your 
sleeping spot might change nightly. In my experience, allies to keep watch 
are far more important than a roof.” 

“You snore,” I tell Wyatt. 

“No, I don’t. I was fake-snoring on the train.” 

“Bad news. You also real-snore.” 

“Like a bear,” Maysilee confirms. “I could hear you through the 
wall.” 

“Try to find someplace loud to sleep,” advises Mags. “Next to rushing 
water. Or muffle the sound in a cave.” 

“T’ll put a blanket or something over your head,” says Maysilee. “Or 
wake you if you’re really loud.” 

“T forgot you’d be there,” says Wyatt. “I guess friends top my list, too. 
What else happens in training?” 


“Experts will be there to teach you how to use the weapons, show you 
how to make a fire,” says Mags. “Look for clues to your arena. The 
Gamemakers sometimes hide little hints about the nature of the arena in 
their design. Not in the beginning. My Games were so long ago. Training, if 
you could call it that, was minimal back then. We didn’t get any clues, in or 
out of the arena.” 

“Last year some of the survival stations had reflective items. Foil 
blankets. Metal bowls. And at the fire-building station, a little round mirror. 
I think that was a clue, but I didn’t understand it until I saw the arena,” says 
Wiress. “Inside, when I understood the nature of the place, my instinct was 
to walk toward danger, because, in fact, it was only a reflection of danger, 
not the thing itself. Trust your instincts.” 

“That is good advice in general,” Mags says. 

The intercom crackles to life and a voice announces that it’s time to 
leave for training. Mags pins fabric squares with the number 12 on our 
backs. We’re met by Peacekeepers at the elevator, loaded into the van, and 
transported to the gym. 

As we Step out into the sunlight, Maysilee gives Wyatt the once-over. 
“You need more attitude, Wyatt.” He tries to look tougher. “No, that’s 
worse,” she says. “Push your jaw out. Stand up tall. Now stick out your 
chest.” She musses his hair and pushes up his sleeves. “You’ve got some 
muscle from the mines. Show it off.” 

“Yeah, that’s better,” I admit. “The black clothes don’t hurt.” 

“We’re from District Twelve. The crummiest stinkhole in Panem,” 
says Maysilee. “We’re wild like our chariot horses. I slugged our escort and 
Haymitch called out President Snow. Nobody pushes us around.” 

“We’re unpredictable,” says Wyatt. 

“Just a bunch of loose cannons,” I agree. 

The Peacekeepers open the doors and we head in, sending out our best 
loose-cannon vibe. 

The place has been transformed. The makeover stations have been 
replaced with survival skills booths — fire building, knots, skinning 
animals, camouflage — overseen by trainers in fitted white jumpsuits. The 
far end of the gym has been reserved for various types of weapon 
instruction. The other tributes swarm around the booths, dressed in the same 
outfits but in an assortment of colors. I’m glad we got black because 


everybody looks sickly in snot green — sucks for you, District 1 — and the 
buttery yellow on District 9 makes them about as threatening as a hatful of 
baby chicks. 

Nylon ropes divide the bleachers to our right into twelve sections 
marked with the district numbers. Ours sits closest to the door. The tribute 
bleachers are empty except for the kids from 11, who are gathered in a tight 
clump of dark green, heatedly discussing something. 

“Are we always the last ones to arrive at everything?” complains 
Maysilee. 

“Keep ’em waiting,” I say. But we are consistently an afterthought. 
And no one has been waiting for us. 

“Loose cannons,” Wyatt reminds us. We straighten up and stride into 
the thick of it. 

Mags is right. Here at the gym, we do stick to one another. We’re the 
only ones we know. And at the Games, we’re the least likely to kill one 
another. 

“We should throw knives,” decides Maysilee. 

It’s not a bad idea. Despite what I promised Ma, I’m not a complete 
stranger to knife games, although a fondness for my toes keeps me away 
from mumblety-peg. A target on an old shed or a tree — well, that’s fair 
game. Blair’s really good and I’m not too shabby myself. I think of my 
brand-new birthday pocketknife that I didn’t get to throw even once, and 
hope Sid gets some joy from it. 

AS we weave our way to the knife range, I notice a few camera crews 
covering training and a smattering of Peacekeepers patrolling the 
gymnasium. To our left, the top section of the bleachers is full of 
Gamemakers draped in snowy gowns. They mosey around, drinking coffee 
and making notes on the tributes below. In a few days, we will each receive 
a score, one to twelve, which ranks our likelihood of winning the Games. 
People will use it as a guide on whether or not to sponsor us. 

We join a group with the tributes from 7, clad in russet brown. 
Everybody sizes one another up while a Capitol woman, Hersilia, instructs 
us in knife throwing. Ampert said 7 had already agreed to join his alliance, 
and they make a favorable impression. They seem confident, but not full of 
themselves. One of them — a slim girl with a lot of glossy black braids and 


a small carved pin of a tree on her shirt — tells me her name, Ringina, so I 
tell her mine. 

Once we all grasp the basics — how to hold the blade, the straight 
arm motion, no flicking the wrist — we line up to throw. On a stand, there’s 
a basket of about a dozen different knives, but only one tribute can have 
their hands on a weapon at a time. You throw, then a guy in white collects 
the knife and returns it. Hersilia selects the model for the next tribute. A lot 
of knives bounce off the target, although Maysilee hits more than she 
misses, and, not to brag, I stick it every time. The throwing unwinds me a 
bit, since all my associations are good ones, hanging out with my friends in 
the woods and messing around. When Ringina hits the bulls-eye, I forget 
where I am and give her a “Nice shot.” 

As Ringina accepts the compliment with a quick grin, the energy 
shifts. I know I’m never going to kill this girl any more than I’m going to 
kill Maysilee or Wyatt. So I might as well be 7’s ally and join Ampert’s 
team for real. 

I open the negotiation with “So, Ampert says you all are —” when 
there’s a blur of snot green to my left, the clatter of knives as the basket’s 
upset, and the sensation of a sledgehammer hitting my ribs. 

If you’ve ever been sucker punched, you know there’s the double 
outrage of the pain and the unfairness of the attack. As I lie gasping on the 
mat, watching Panache close in, my fingers grip a knife handle. Before I 
can rise, a Peacekeeper tases him and three more drag him off. Wyatt offers 
me a hand up as the other tributes gather the knives. 

There’s this moment, just as I get to my feet, where I look around, and 
I’m armed, and they’re armed. A half dozen of us hold sleek, deadly knives. 
And I see that there aren’t many Peacekeepers here today. Not really. We 
outnumber them four to one. And if we moved quickly, we could probably 
free up some of those tridents and spears and swords at the other stations 
and have ourselves a real nice arsenal. I meet Ringina’s eyes, and I’d swear 
she’s thinking the same thing. When Hersilia holds out the basket, it takes 
Ringina some effort to drop her knife in. 

The two of us resume our places at the end of the line, hanging back a 
little, just out of earshot, as the training continues. 

“Raise your arms,” Ringina says. 


I gingerly reach up, and she feels my rib cage where Panache’s blow 
landed. “Not broken, I think.” She steps back, her lips pressed tight in 
consternation. “We could’ve taken them.” 

The more I think it over, the more my dismay grows. Every year we 
let them herd us into their killing machine. Every year they pay no price for 
the slaughter. They just throw a big party and box up our bodies like 
presents for our families to open back home. 

“We could’ve at least done some damage,” I tell Ringina. 

“At least a little. Possibly a considerable amount,” someone says 
behind me. I turn to see Plutarch. He waves his camera crew over to record 
the knife training, but his attention stays on me. “The question is, why 
didn’t you?” 


> 


Sore ribs and all, I think about punching the question right off 
Plutarch’s face. Because the implication is clear: He isn’t just asking why 
we didn’t start a mini rebellion in the gym. He means back in District 12 as 
well. Why do we let the Capitol brutes rule us? Because we’re cowards? 
Because we’re stupid? 

“Why do you submit to it all?” he presses. 

“Because you have the guns,” Ringina says flatly. 

“Ts it really about the weapons, though? I grant you, they’re an 
advantage. On the other hand, when you consider the sheer difference in 
numbers . . . district to Capitol . . .” Plutarch muses. 

Yes, we far outnumber the Peacekeepers in 12. I think about the 
weapons we could lay our hands on. Pickaxes, knives, possibly some 
explosives. But in the face of automatic rifles, aerial bombings, gases, and 
the Capitol’s menagerie of mutts? 

“T don’t think we ‘submit,’” I say. 

“Tt’s implied. You accept the Capitol’s conditions.” 

“Because we don’t want to end up dead!” I snap. “Do you really not 
see that?” 


“No, I do. I see the hangings and the shootings and the starvation and 
the Hunger Games. I do,” Plutarch says. “And yet, I still don’t think the fear 
they inspire justifies this arrangement we’ve all entered into. Do you?” We 
stare at him. He’s not taunting or mocking us, he’s genuinely asking. “Why 
do you agree to it? Why do I? For that matter, why have people always 
agreed to it?” When we don’t respond, he shrugs. “Well, it’s something to 
think about.” 

“You’re up, Haymitch.” Hersilia offers me a knife. Which I could (a) 
throw or (b) drive into a Peacekeeper’s heart, ensuring my immediate death. 
I’m a little wobbly but I still hit the target. 

Plutarch waits for me at the end of the line. I try to ignore him, but he 
keeps yapping. “You put on quite a show last night.” 

“Yeah, well, I bet you card-stacked it right into a compliment for the 
president.” 

“No need to. The broadcast to the public ended when that firecracker 
went off. The Capitol News coverage is presenting the opening ceremony as 
flawless.” 

“T doubt that people who take Capitol News seriously will spend 
much time questioning that,” I say. “They don’t care what happens to us 
tributes, dead or alive.” I wonder what they did with Louella’s body. I hope 
it’s been sent home to the McCoys. Their family plot’s right next door to 
ours, so Louella and I will be reunited soon enough. 

I start to turn away, but Plutarch lays a hand on my arm. “I’m sorry 
about Louella, Haymitch. She was a person of substance. I could see that 
right off.” 

Is he actually giving me condolences? “Why do you keep dogging 
me?” I snap at him. “There’s a gym full of people just aching for some 
exposure. Why don’t you spread yourself around a little?” 

“I’m assigned to cover Twelve.” He raises his hands and backs away. 
“But I'll try to give you some space.” 

Aggravated by his probing, I pull Maysilee and Wyatt aside. “Listen, 
if we join Ampert’s alliance, these folks from Seven will be on our team. 
Now I’m going to introduce you to Ringina over there.” I give Maysilee a 
hard stare. “You have to be nice. Don’t comment on her hair, don’t 
comment on her nails, don’t comment on how she looks in brown, don’t ask 
to examine her pin because you’re an authority on jewelry.” 


Maysilee sniffs. “I like her hair.” 

“And, Wyatt, don’t be weird. Don’t start spouting out the odds on 
their deaths.” 

“Can I do other people’s deaths?” 

“No! Not yet. Maybe not ever. It’s creepy! If you have to do odds, do 
gifts or sponsors or something,” I say. “Forget about being loose cannons. 
We need to seem like people you’d want to be your allies. Like people 
you’d hope were beside you in a mine accident. Steady. Smart. 
Trustworthy.” 

Ampert, glowing in electric blue, runs up, swinging a loop of black 
cord over his head. “Hey, Haymitch! District Ten is in. They’re the ones in 
crimson. I met them in knot tying. One of the guys, Buck, made me this 
lariat. I’m thinking of turning it into some kind of token, since I didn’t bring 
one.” He wraps the cord in loose bands around his hand, pulls it over his 
head, and drops his voice. “Then I can unwind it and use it in the arena.” 

Maysilee’s lips twitch. “Well, you can’t wear it like that. It’s not the 
least bit ornamental. You look like a weasel caught in chicken wire.” 

“T do?” Ampert doesn’t seem offended but shoots me a curious look. 

“What did we just discuss?” I say to Maysilee. 

She ignores me and, uninvited, uncoils the cord from Ampert’s neck. 

“This is Maysilee, from back home. Looking to ally up with you.” 

Maysilee examines the cord, testing its flexibility and twisting it 
between her fingers. “You could do a braid necklace. That’s a one-strander. 
It would look something like this.” She pulls out one of her necklaces, an 
elaborate black braided piece. A small, shiny medallion etched with a 
flower is embedded in it. “No flower, obviously.” 

“Okay,” says Ampert. “Can you make me one?” 

“T guess I could, but I don’t have any tape, so you’Il need to hold it 
down while I work,” she says. 

“T’ll hold it,” he answers. 

“And there’s nothing to hook it, so we’d have to tie it off, which is 
never my first choice.” 

Ampert digs in his pocket and holds up my safety pin from last night. 
“T’ve got this.” 

She considers it. “All right. Just be careful if you take it off or the 
whole thing could unravel. Come on.” She heads for the bleachers, not even 


checking if he’s following her. 

“My father wants to meet you. He’s at the booth with the potato,” 
Ampert tells me, then scurries after her. 

His father? A potato? Doubts crowd in again. What am I doing? Is 
Ampert just some deluded child who lives in a fantasy world? Before I 
commit myself, I need to know. So I introduce Wyatt to Ringina — keeping 
my fingers crossed that he’1l act half-normal — and head off in search of a 
man with a potato. 

After making a lap around the crowded booths, sure enough, I find 
one. A small man with black hair, his back to me, leans against a counter 
that holds a lone potato, no takers for his skills. I fiddle with a strip of 
bandage at the neighboring first-aid booth while I examine him. As he 
turns, I note the pair of steel-rimmed glasses. While he bears a strong 
resemblance to Ampert, this is not why he looks familiar. It’s Beetee, a 
victor from District 3. 

A cold dread washes over me as the puzzle pieces come together. 
Ampert is neither a lunatic nor a liar. His father has accompanied him to the 
Capitol because he’s a victor. And therefore a mentor, assigned to coach his 
own child to his death in the Fiftieth Hunger Games. 

Why Beetee’s been tapped to man a booth with a potato, I’ve no idea, 
because he’s supposed to be some kind of technological genius. The real 
question is: How did Ampert end up here with him? Two tributes reaped 
from one family .. . are they just the unluckiest family in Panem? 

I give up on being covert and approach him. “You’re Ampert’s 
father?” 

“T am. And no doubt you’re wondering why I’m here, Haymitch.” 
Beetee removes his glasses and polishes them on his shirt. “It’s because I’m 
being punished for coming up with a plan to sabotage the Capitol’s 
communication system. I’m too valuable to kill, but my son is disposable.” 

That pretty much answers my question. “That’s terrible. I’m so sorry. 
He’s a great kid.” 

“He is.” Beetee’s eyes find Ampert, sitting across from Maysilee on 
the bleachers, chattering away while she weaves the cord into patterns. 

“And they made you be his mentor?” I ask. 

“Tt’s part of the punishment. Watching what are almost certainly the 
last hours of my son’s life. They even gave me a booth in training, which 


mentors don’t traditionally attend, so I wouldn’t miss a minute. If I wasn’t 
here to witness it, there would be no point.” 

I can’t think of anything to say to comfort him, but I try. “This isn’t 
your fault.” 

“But it is. Entirely. I took a risk. I didn’t suspect that I’d been found 
out until the reaping. The timing was calculated. If I had known, I could 
have killed myself, and Ampert would be safe at home. That is how Snow 
works.” He drops his head, resting his fingertips on the wooden counter to 
steady himself. I wait for him to disintegrate, but he only says, “Would you 
like to learn how to turn a potato into a battery? Light can be important in 
the arena.” 

Not really, Beetee, I think. What Id really like to do is run away from 
the raging pit of fire that is your life. But that seems cowardly. Like what 
people back home are probably doing to Ma and Sid right now. So I say, 
“Okay. Will there be potatoes in the arena?” 

“T don’t know. I suspect this assignment was meant to demean me, 
which it doesn’t. That may be its whole purpose. But if you can’t find a 
potato, other things — a lemon, for instance — could work as well. Just 
don’t eat anything after it’s been used as a battery.” He pulls out a small tray 
with little plastic packets. Each contains a couple of nails, a pair of copper 
coins, mini coils of wire, and two tiny light bulbs. “Two potatoes would 
provide more power.” 

“T guess if I can find one potato, I stand a good chance of finding 
two.” 

“Tf not, you might try cutting one in half.” He produces a second 
potato and slides it in front of me, then offers me a thing that looks like a 
pencil with a small blade on the end. “For now we’ll use both. Follow 
along.” 

Beetee tears open a packet and dumps the contents on the counter. His 
eyes flick up for a second. A Peacekeeper hovers at my shoulder. The 
slender knife twitches in my hand. Here I am again. Armed and with access. 
“Well, it’s something to think about. . . .” 

“Now, this battery is made up of copper, zinc, and the phosphoric acid 
in the potato juice, which is an electrically conductive solution. It makes it 
possible for ions to travel between the two metals. Our goal is to create a 
circuit and illuminate this bulb.” 


He’s lost me already, but I nod like he’s making sense. 

“First, we need a space for the coin.” Beetee cuts a coin-sized slot into 
the side of his potato and I copy him. “Then we wrap one of the copper 
coins in wire and insert it, leaving the long tail out.” 

I sink my wire-wrapped coin into my potato. “Does this mean it will 
be dark in the arena?” 

“Oh, I have no actual knowledge of the arena. They say if you boil the 
potato, you can increase your output, so that’s something to keep in mind.” 

“But if I could boil a potato, I’d already have successfully made a fire. 
SO's.65. 

A smile plays on his lips. “So you’d have achieved an alternate light 
source, and this whole potato exercise would be a waste of your time.” 

“T didn’t mean that. Sorry.” 

“You needn’t apologize for being astute. I’m just glad you’re paying 
attention.” 

I feel the Peacekeeper move on. “Wiress said there would be clues 
about the arena in training.” 

“Well, I would listen to her. Having been her mentor, I know how 
clever she is.” He holds up a nail. “This is galvanized. Coated in zinc. Don’t 
let it touch the coin. These needn’t be a coin and a nail. What you need is 
copper and zinc. Strips of metal work just as well. You might be able to 
forage some in the arena, if you get beneath the scenery.” He sticks the nail 
into the potato, a few inches from the coin. I follow suit. 

“She also says every arena is just a machine.” 

“Yes, they’re all machines of a sort.” 

I think back to our conversation in the kitchen, when I said I wanted 
to outsmart the machine and make the Capitol look stupid. Now that just 
seems like an empty gesture. Wiress spent a whole Games doing that, far 
better than I ever could, and what did it get us? Besides, whatever little 
thing I might manage, it’d be too easy to keep off camera. The real coup 
would be to... “So, if it’s a machine, it can be broken, right?” 

Beetee eyes Ampert. “Yes, in theory. Practice is always a bit trickier. 
Now let’s connect our potatoes.” He attaches the wire from his coin to my 
nail and links a third wire to his nail. 

Suddenly, I remember a clip of Beetee’s Games. He somehow 
scavenged parts from his arena and electrocuted all his remaining 


competitors. I realize if I’m serious about breaking the machine, I will need 
this man who once not only outsmarted, but hijacked his own arena. 
Because even if I’m naturally smart enough, I’m still just a poorly educated 
boy from the hills, who had no idea you could turn a potato into a battery. 

“How, Beetee? How can I break it?” I say under my breath. “I don’t 
know anything about machines.” 

“I’m sure you do without realizing it. A screw is a simple machine. A 
wheel and axle. A lever. Are you familiar with a water pump?” 

“Too familiar.” 

“That’s a lever. It helps create a partial vacuum and water is drawn 
upward. Some machines take more know-how than others.” 

“IT know how a white liquor still works. Does that count?” 

I catch a ghost of a smile. “I don’t see why not.” Beetee takes the wire 
from my coin and the one from his nail and attaches them each to one of the 
little wires poking out of the base of a tiny bulb. “And here we go.” It emits 
a faint glow. 

Ma would love this. Think of the money we could save on candles. 
But this will not destroy an arena. 

“What would break it, Beetee?” I press. 

Beetee leans over, lifts his glasses, and peers under them as he 
scrutinizes the battery. “The circuit? Well, you’d only need to disconnect 
one piece — say, remove a wire — and the whole battery goes dead.” I 
realize there’s another Peacekeeper behind me, and Beetee’s words are for 
her benefit. “Remember, we’re converting chemical energy into electrical 
energy to illuminate the bulb. You need to keep the circular path intact.” 

The Peacekeeper moves in closer, her nose inches from the battery 
now, her interest attracting a quartet of tributes in peach outfits. District 8. 
My unofficial allies, if things work out. 

“Can we try that?” one asks. 

“Of course,” says Beetee. “Well, thank you for dropping by, 
Haymitch. Come back if you’d like to practice. And happy belated sixteenth 
birthday.” I guess Ampert told him. He holds out his hand for me to shake. 
“That’s funny. I was reaped the day you were born.” 

As I grasp his hand, I feel something, palm it, and conceal it in my 
pocket. “Thanks, sir,” I say before walking away, my fingers probing the 
plastic packet, bumpy with coins and nails. A little birthday present from 


Beetee. If I can find some way to smuggle it into the arena, convince people 
I scavenged the stuff — the coins might be tricky but I can maybe dig up 
some other copper — and find a potato, I’ll be halfway to a really dim bulb. 
I’m pretty sure my flint striker’s a faster route to light, but possibly those 
kids from 8 could use it. 

Up on the bleachers, Maysilee puts the finishing touches on an 
expertly woven braided necklace. Truly, it could pass as anyone’s token 
from home. She holds it up for inspection. 

Ampert strokes it in admiration. “It’s beautiful. And perfectly 
symmetrical. I wouldn’t believe it’s all one strand. You’re really clever!” 

“And you have good taste,” she says, slipping it over his head. 

“T wish you were my sister,” he says simply. 

A funny look crosses her face. Bet she’s never heard those words 
before. I wait for a cutting remark, but she only says, “I’ll be your sister.” 

“Great. I’m going to show my father!” Ampert gives her a hug, which 
she stiffly returns, then runs off. 

Her brow wrinkles. “His father?” 

“Tt really is his pa,” I tell her. “Remember Beetee, the victor from 
District Three? Got out of line. They’re punishing him by making him 
mentor Ampert.” 

“That’s a special kind of vicious. Would you want your family to be 
here?” 

“T can’t think of anything worse.” 

A Gamemaker announces lunch and we’re directed back to our 
assigned bleachers, where a Peacekeeper delivers four boxes. I’m still full 
of breakfast, my gut hurts from Panache’s attack, and the sight of Louella’s 
unclaimed lunch box kills my remaining appetite. 

A parade of blue, brown, peach, and red uniforms makes its way to 
the foot of our bleachers. I sort out 3, 7, 8, 10. 

“Can we join you?” asks Ampert. 

“Sure,” I say. If they’re going to be our allies, be good if we can bond 
a little. They clamber up beside us and everybody shares their names, most 
of which I immediately forget. The kids from 10 are bruised and scabby 
from the chariot debacle but look like a sturdy enough bunch. 

From the next section, District 11 pretends to ignore us, but as they’ve 
all gone quiet, I guess they’re eavesdropping. Trying to figure out what kind 


of allies we’d make. 

“Ampert, this is your show,” I say. “Why don’t you tell us what 
you’ve got in mind?” 

I like how even though he’s only twelve, he jumps right in. “It’s like 
this. A disproportionate amount of the time, the Careers win. But they’re 
only one quarter of the tributes. We’ve got three times their numbers. So the 
idea is, we get the rest of us together and, for a change, we hunt them down 
instead of letting them hunt us.” 

“Can we do that, do you think?” asks a girl from 10. 

“Why not, Lannie?” replies Ampert. 

Why not? I think about how the districts outnumber the Capitol by far 
more than three to one. 

“We don’t have to buy into their mind game, that somehow they will 
always defeat us,” Ampert declares. “Everyone acts like the odds aren’t in 
our favor, but I’m sure we can beat those odds!” 

At the word odds, Wyatt seems to blink awake. “Well, we’d have to 
factor in their stature, training, temperament, and sponsor gifts. But even 
given that, if there are enough of us .. .” His eyes get a faraway look. 

“Yeah, this is normal for him,” I tell the group. “He’s working out the 
odds of the twelve Careers against the rest of us.” Everyone waits 
respectfully. 

“Yes, it can be done. We could do it. It’s still not a probability, but it’s 
a solid possibility,” reports Wyatt. “Especially if we can get all nine districts 
to agree.” 

“Tf we kill all the Careers,” asks Ringina, “what do the rest of us do 
then?” 

“Have another meeting,” says Maysilee. “At least this alliance gives 
us something to do besides freak out.” 

“Right now, we don’t have nine districts, though,” Wyatt reminds us. 
“Just five.” 

“I’ve asked the others, but not everybody wants to join,” says Ampert. 
Our attention turns to the bleachers stretching across the gym. At the far 
end, the Careers mirror us, having assembled for lunch. Snot green mixed 
with the purple of 2 and 4’s deep-sea blue. Districts 11, 9, 6, and 5 remain 
unattached. We watch as a few members of the Careers toss their empty 
lunch boxes to the gym floor, then walk down to where District 6 sits and 


steal a couple of the kids’ lunches. Games or no Games, if you’ve got a 
decent bone in your body, you hate a bully. 

District 6 is composed of four puny kids whose rickety limbs suggest 
they’ve never seen sunlight. Victims of last night’s chariot episode, they’re 
bandaged in enough gauze to choke a horse. One has a twisted foot, and I 
remember another collapsing on the shower floor, wheezing from the 
insecticide. I’m tempted to write them off entirely—what could they 
possibly bring to the alliance except neediness? But I snag on the shade of 
their outfits. Dove color. Seems like a sign. 

“Six said no?” I ask Ampert. 

“They said they want to remain neutral so the Careers don’t target 
them.” 

“We can see how that’s working out,” I say. 

A bone-thin little girl in Lenore Dove’s color collapses on the 
bleachers, sobbing. I grab my untouched lunch box, scoop up Louella’s, and 
make my way down the bleachers. The crying girl recoils as I approach, and 
I hold out Louella’s lunch. “Here. We had a couple extras.” She hesitates, 
then takes the box with a shaking hand. The wheezing boy accepts the 
other. “You all managing after the accident?” 

The girl nods. “We’re sorry our chariot hurt your friend.” 

Frail she is, but considerate. “Not your fault. Never thought for a 
minute it was.” 

“Thanks for not blaming us,” she says. 

“Blaming you? Seems like we’re all in this together,” I say. “You 
know, we’ve got a pretty good alliance in the works. I understand you’re 
trying to stay neutral, but really that just makes you a target for everybody. 
Anyway, the invite’s still good.” 

By the time I make it back to my gang, four broken doves are on my 
tail. They perch on the seats, whisper their names — Wellie, the crying girl; 
Miles, the asthmatic boy; Atread and Velo, the remaining boy and girl. Then 
they dig in to their lunches. 

“Six makes six,” says Wyatt. 

“We need a name,” says Ringina. “If they’re the Careers, who are 
we?” 

People toss out ideas for names. Now that we’re allies, District 12 
offers Loose Cannons, 10 comes up with Dark Horses, and 7 volunteers 


Invaders. 

“No,” says Wellie, intensely. “Those all sound like we’re trying to be 
tough. But we’re not tough compared to the Careers. What we are is 
inexperienced, not trained from birth to win the Games.” 

“Is that a good selling point?” asks Lannie. 

“In a way,” says Ampert. “For one thing, it means we haven’t spent 
our whole lives buying into the Games as something we aspire to.” 

“We’re not collaborators,” says Ringina. 

“Right. But we’ll fight if we have to,” says Ampert. “We need a good 
name for people who are just starting something hard. A district name.” 

“Like Neddie Newcomer,” I say without hesitation. The others laugh. 
“No, it’s a real thing. In the mines, if you’ve just started, they call you 
Neddie Newcomer. My pa used to call me that whenever he’d teach me 
something new. Like, ‘Come on, Neddie Newcomer, let’s learn to tie those 
boots.’” 

“T like it,” says Wellie, a smile transforming her tear-stained face. 
“We’re the Newcomers.” 

Ringina thinks it over, then grins. “And proud of it.” 

Everything feels better after lunch. It’s less that I don’t have to fear 
half the tributes than that I don’t have to think about killing them. The latter 
is much worse. Now I can join my allies at the booths and know they’ ve got 
my back as we learn to make snares, throw axes, and set a broken leg. 

The four tributes from 6 stick to me like glue. My own little dove- 
colored flock. I hope they don’t all think I can protect them when we hit the 
arena, because I can’t. 

Wyatt seems to have found his people. Ampert’s co-tributes from 3 
have a fascination with his odds system, and he seems happy to share it 
with them. Number freaks find one another, I guess. 

It’s Maysilee who surprises me. Back home, she isn’t popular, she’s 
known. She’s not respected, she’s feared. Not deferred to, but avoided. 
Here, following Ampert’s lead, kids bring her their district trinkets and ask 
her to make them special, and she agrees. The girl must know fifty ways to 
braid, twist, and loop a cord into a piece of finery. She sets off their humble 
offerings from home with her fancy patterns. District pride runs deep. From 
6, which covers transportation, Wellie has an old bicycle bell, Miles a tin 
train whistle. Livestock-loving District 10 brought horseshoes; the 


lumberjacks of 7, carved wooden trinkets. The girls from District 8 have 
little dolls in beautifully sewn outfits. A kid from 3 has a doorknob, but I’m 
not sure how that reflects technology. Whatever they present her with, 
Maysilee gives dignity to their tokens, and even though she still offers a fair 
amount of unsolicited fashion advice — two girls change their hairstyles 
and a boy promises to stop biting his nails — our allies adore her. 

By the end of the training session, District 11 hasn’t said yes, but they 
haven’t said no either. If they’re in, I wish they’d say so. We could use more 
brawn. I saw Hull, the guy who kicked Panache in the shower, fling a 
pitchfork and decapitate a dummy. Why pretend that’s not what we’re here 
for? 

All of us Newcomers stand a little bit straighter by the time we head 
back to our vans. Even locked in the dark, Maysilee, Wyatt, and I continue 
to make plans, sharing information about our allies and working on a 
strategy. In no time at all, the van pulls to a stop. 

“That was quick,” says Maysilee. 

The door swings open, and a Peacekeeper gestures for me to get out. 
Wyatt makes to follow, but the Peacekeeper holds up a hand. “No, just 
Abernathy.” 

This isn’t good. I slide out of the van in front of a white marble 
building, far more imposing than our tribute apartment. It stretches the 
length of the block, a single structure accessed by a huge pair of wooden 
doors inlaid with a pattern of golden stars. I catch a glimpse of Wyatt’s 
furrowed brow as the door slams shut and the van speeds away. What’s 
going on? Where am I? 

Two men in violet uniforms stand in silent attendance at the entrance. 
As if responding to some unheard signal, they haul open the doors to reveal 
Plutarch Heavensbee. He approaches me, his face unreadable. 

“Hello, Haymitch. I’m afraid there’s been a last-minute schedule 
change.” 

“Just for me?” 

“Just for you. It seems the president had second thoughts about 
your... performance.” 

Louella under the balcony. Snow up above. While I applauded for all 
the Capitol to see. 


Plutarch doesn’t need to explain further. This is where I pay for 
painting my poster. 


“J 


A fragile collection of muscles and bones, a few quarts of blood, 
wrapped up in a paper-thin package of skin. That’s all I am. As I pass 
through the doors of this marble fortress, I have never felt more breakable. 

My eyes travel up the walls to the lofty ceiling over the entryway. No 
poodles or oranges here. Just more marble and huge urns filled with 
bunches of flowers the size of bushes. 

A servant in a starched apron runs a feather duster over a naked 
statue. She catches my eye, her lips parting in pity. Her tongue’s missing. 
She’s an Avox, one of the mutilated prisoners forced to wordlessly serve the 
Capitol for life. Will they take my tongue? The thought turns my mouth 
bone-dry. Dying at the end of Panache’s sword now seems like a mercy. 

“This way,” says Plutarch. 

The carpet has the soft spring of a bed of moss, and it absorbs my 
footsteps as if I’m already gone and beyond making a sound. One of the 
ghosts that inhabit Lenore Dove’s songs. She once told me about being 
arrested by the Peacekeepers back home, how frightened she was at first. 
Then she remembered she’d read that sometimes the only thing you can 
control is your attitude to a situation. “Like I could decide whether I was 


scared or not, no matter what happened. I mean, I was still scared, but it 
helped having that to chew on.” 

I try to chew on it, but there’s too much adrenaline pumping through 
my veins. Help me, Lenore Dove, I think. But she can’t. No one can. 

Plutarch leads me down a long, arched hallway lined with lifesized 
paintings of haughty people in fine, old-fashioned clothes. Each holds an 
object — a scale, a harp, a ruby-studded cup — that seems meant to define 
them. 

Plutarch gestures indifferently. “Meet the Heavensbees,” he says. 

Wait . . . the Heavensbees? Is this his family? And could this actually 
be his house? 

There’s no shortage of Heavensbees; they watch over us through 
several halls, flaunting their signature possessions — a leafy branch, a 
glossy white bird, a sword, is that a turkey leg? Dripping in wealth, every 
last one of them. We pass doorways, some tightly sealed, some flung open 
to reveal roomfuls of elegant furniture and twinkling crystal lights. Other 
than an occasional Avox slinking in the shadows, it’s deserted. 

I think about how many people spent their lives building this place, 
how many died before its completion, so that the Heavensbees could have 
somewhere to hang their pictures. Their smug, satisfied, ridiculous pictures. 
Well, the joke’s on the Heavensbees. Now they’re dead, too. 

Finally, we turn into a room where an old man with a white beard 
holding out an open book smiles down from his portrait above the fireplace. 

“Trajan Heavensbee,” says Plutarch. “I’m his great-, great- — I can 
never remember how many greats. Anyway, he was one of my grandfathers. 
The only one who’s been of any use really. This was his library. It’s a good 
place to talk.” 

Talking isn’t torturing, so I calm down a little. The walls come into 
focus. They’re not lined with instruments of pain but towering shelves of 
books. Thousands and thousands of volumes, floor to ceiling. In the corner, 
a golden staircase spirals up a column of white marble and leads to a 
balcony that runs around the room. A gold eagle perches on the railing at 
the top of the stairs. 

This room is Lenore Dove’s dream come true. A world of words to 
wrap herself up in. Each book’s as precious as a person, she says, as it 
preserves someone’s thoughts and feelings long after they’re gone. The 


Covey have a collection of them, ancient things with cracked leather 
bindings and paper delicate as moth’s wings. The family treasure. 

Although most of us learn our letters in school, there aren’t a lot of 
books in 12. Sometimes one appears at the Hob, and if I’ve got anything to 
trade with, I snatch it up to save for Lenore Dove’s birthday, regardless of 
the subject, since they’re so hard to come by. There was a paperback guide 
to raising poultry once, and even though it mostly talked about chickens and 
she’s a goose girl, she loved it. Another time, I found a collection of maps 
from long before the Dark Days, pretty useless now. But I really struck gold 
last year with a small volume of poems by the long dead. Some of those 
made it into songs. 

I remember the joy on Lenore Dove’s face when I gave her the poetry, 
the kisses that followed, and feel stronger. They can’t destroy what really 
matters. 

“Do you read, Haymitch?” Plutarch asks. 

“T can read.” 

“No, I meant, do you like to read?” 

“Depends on what.” 

“I’m the same,” says Plutarch. “Reading in general isn’t a popular 
pastime in the Capitol. It’s a shame. Everything you need to know about 
people is right here in this room.” He turns a knob shaped like a goat’s head 
on what I took to be a desk built into the bookshelves. The top splits in two 
and a tray full of sparkling bottles rises in its place. Plutarch pours himself a 
glass of amber liquid. “Can I offer you something?” 

“T don’t drink.” Professional curiosity wins out, though — I’m a 
bootlegger, after all — and I cross to examine the booze. What we call 
white liquor’s as clear as water, but his bar boasts every color of the 
rainbow. I don’t know if these have been dyed or aged or mixed with other 
things, like herbs. It’s all white liquor, only dressed up. The bottles have 
little silver nameplates on chains. Vodka. Rye. Cognac. 

Then I spy a name I recognize, even though I’ve never seen the stuff. 
I lift the bottle and let the light dance off its rosy depths. 

“Tt’s called nepenthe,” says Plutarch. “You probably haven’t heard of 
ie 

You’d be wrong there, Plutarch. Not only have I heard of it, I know it 
from the poem that gave my love her name. I’m tired of being patronized, 


so I decide to put him in his place. “You mean, like ‘Quaff, oh quaff this 
kind nepenthe...’ ?” 

Plutarch’s eyebrows shoot up in surprise. He completes the line. “‘... 
and forget this lost Lenore!’ ” 

Now I’m surprised, and a little unsettled. I guess, with all these books, 
her poem could be here. But for him not only to have read it, but 
memorized it, unnerves me. I don’t like her name in his mouth. 

“Of course, it’s unclear in the poem if nepenthe’s the liquor or the 
drug added to the liquor,” he continues. 

I remember having this same discussion with Lenore Dove. She said 
quajff means to drink, usually something with alcohol. And the guy telling 
the story in the song is trying to stop thinking about how he lost his true 
love. 

“T think the important part is it makes you forget terrible things,” I 
Say. 

“Exactly. I’m sure this is just a poor imitation. Grain alcohol colored 
with berries. In the old days, it actually contained morphling, but the stuff 
was so addictive it was banned. May I ask how you know that poem, 
Haymitch?” 

“Everybody knows it in Twelve.” That’s a big lie, but I want him to 
think we all learned it in a book, like he did. 

“Really? Huh. Well, I’ve got something you’!l want to see. It’s in the 
conservatory.” 

Sure, the conservatory. Whatever that is. He leads me out a side door, 
down a narrow hallway, and into a room whose domed ceiling frames a 
piece of the evening sky. Glass curves around to form the walls as well, 
revealing a garden of bright flowers and trees outside. Seems like overkill, 
since the room’s already filled with plants that glisten in the humid air. 
Birds fly freely among the overhead beams, chirping their heads off. Little 
tables and chairs covered in curlicues surround a fountain that splashes 
water into a pool. One table holds a telephone shaped like a sleeping swan, 
its head and curved neck forming the receiver. Something buzzes near my 
ear and I swat it away. 

It’s like they’ve tried to bring the whole outdoors indoors. Why? Is 
opening a door and walking through it too much trouble? Fools and their 
money are soon parted, Ma would say. 


“Come, look at this.” Plutarch waves me over to a plant that hangs 
from a beam in a basket near the swan phone. From the long, shiny green 
leaves dangle pinkish pods, each equipped with what looks like a little lid. 
A small pool of liquid has collected at the bottom of each pod. As I inhale 
the faintly sweet, faintly rotten smell, Plutarch points to one. “They put out 
a nectar. Insects adore it. But the surface is slippery, and they fall into the 
pod and can’t get out. They drown and are consumed by the plant.” 

“T think I’m missing something.” 

He taps an engraved nameplate on the side of the pot. Somebody in 
this place must have a full-time job labeling things. It reads vepenrnes. I have 
to think this over. 

“Well,” I conclude, “that’s one way of drowning your sorrows.” 

Plutarch chuckles. “You’re the first person who’s ever gotten the 
joke.” 

There he goes again. Trying to make me feel human. 

“Why am I here, Plutarch?” I ask. 

Before he can answer, someone else interjects, “For me.” 

I don’t recognize the voice at first because its smoothness has 
deteriorated into a raspy growl. I turn and see President Snow leaning 
against the doorway, wiping his brow with a hand-kerchief. Once again, I’m 
rattled by being in his presence. The power of his position. The record of 
his cruelty. Evil in the flesh. Was my crime really so great that it requires a 
personal meeting? Especially when, on closer observation, he’s clearly 
unwell. Perspiring and breathless and white as a sheet. His regal bearing 
abandoned as he hunches over his gut. For once, despite his cosmetic 
treatments, he looks his fifty-eight years. 

“Oh, Mr. President,” says Plutarch. “Are you feeling all right? It’s the 
heat. Let’s find you a seat.” He hurries over and repositions a chair by the 
fountain. “I meant for you to use the library. It’s cooler in there. Would you 
prefer that?” 

The president seems too preoccupied to respond. He takes uneven 
steps toward the fountain and his whole body seizes up for a second. Blood 
trickles from the corner of his mouth onto his white shirtfront as he drops 
into the chair. 

“Can I get you anything? Maybe an icepack?” asks Plutarch. “There’s 
a powder room just over —” Snow leans forward and vomits a foul mess 


into the fountain. “Oh, okay.” 

Glad I don’t have to clean that up. 

Sweat streams down Snow’s waxy face. But there’s no embarrassment 
or apology. No effort to disguise this moment of weakness. It’s almost like 
he wants us to see it. I’ll probably be dead soon. Is it for Plutarch’s benefit? 

The president slumps back in the chair, panting. “Too hot.” 

“Right, let’s get you back in the library.” Plutarch hoists the president 
to his feet and gets his shoulder under an armpit. “Haymitch.” I’m not being 
asked, I’m being ordered. I secure Snow’s other side, holding my breath to 
avoid inhaling the noxious smell of puke and flowery perfume that rises 
from him. Bodily contact with him in this state makes me a little braver. 
He’s just a man, as mortal as the rest of us. For all I know, he’s on his way 
out right now. 

Plutarch and I haul the president back into the library, where we 
deposit him on an embroidered couch. 

“You need a doctor, Mr. President,” Plutarch advises. 

“No doctor,” croaks Snow, grasping Plutarch’s arm. “Milk.” 

“Milk? Haymitch, check the bar. We keep some for milk punch. The 
refrigerator’s on the right.” 

I take my time, playing the confused district piglet who doesn’t know 
left from right and, even when he’s worked that out, can’t figure out how to 
spring the paneled door that conceals the fridge. When I finally open it, I 
spot the milk in a pint-sized white china pitcher. A golden staircase wraps 
around the cylinder, and an eagle perches on the lid. A replica of the steps 
in the corner of the library. 

I glance around the refrigerator door as Snow goes into a coughing fit 
while Plutarch hovers over him. 

This is probably the best chance I will ever have to fight back against 
Snow directly. Here’s to you, Louella. | tip open the eagle lid, down the 
milk, and wipe the moustache from my lip. Then I close the door, holding 
out the pitcher helplessly. “It’s empty.” 

Plutarch’s eyes widen in disbelief; he knows full well what I’ve done. 
I wait for him to rat me out. Instead, he murmurs in exasperation, “Those 
servants!” and disappears out the door, shouting for more milk to be 
brought. Like I said, unpredictable as lightning. 


I’m left alone with a retching Snow. It’s scary watching him possibly 
die. It’s even scarier that I can resist helping him. Before the reaping, I bet I 
would have been right in there. Louella’s death changed me. Maybe I’ Il end 
up being victor material after all. 

Snow gags, empties a crystal bowl of waxed pears onto the table, and 
vomits a new wave, more blackish than bloody, into it. I wonder what old 
Trajan Heavensbee thinks of that. Keep smiling, Trajan — he’s the 
president, after all. Snow’s breathing calms. Ridding his body of that last 
batch seems to have improved his condition. He takes in the room, the 
portrait, me. Swabs his mouth out with the handkerchief and stuffs it in his 
pocket. 

“Sometimes the cure is worse than the disease,” he muses. 

“What disease?” 

“Incompetence. You can’t ignore it, or it spreads.” 

Plutarch comes back carrying a second pitcher of milk. “There was 
some in the billiard room.” 

Snow chugs the milk and holds out the empty pitcher. “Another. And 
some bread.” 

Plutarch looks at the reeking bowl. “Are you sure, Mr. President? 
Sometimes with stomach illnesses, it’s best to —” 

“Not an illness. Food poisoning. A batch of bad oysters. But I’ve 
fared far better than Incitatus Loomy.” 

“The parade master?” asks Plutarch, a funny look crossing his face. 

“Was he?” Snow hands him the bowl. “Bring what I’ve asked.” 

When Plutarch goes, Snow peruses the wall of books before him. 
“Look at them all. Survivors. During the Dark Days, people burned books 
to stay alive. We certainly did. But not the Heavensbees. They remained 
stinking rich, even when the best families were reduced to squalor.” He 
removes a small bottle from his pocket, uncorks it, and swallows the 
contents, shuddering as it settles. “Classmate of mine, Hilarius, was one of 
them. Useless whiner.” He blots his puffy lips on his cuff. “At least Plutarch 
comes in handy occasionally, don’t you think?” 

Plutarch handy to me? What does Snow know? 

“T think he believes you catch more flies with honey than with 
vinegar,” I respond. 


Snow snorts. “Ah, the homey aphorisms of District Twelve are alive 
and well.” 

I don’t know what an aphorism is — some sort of saying? Lenore 
Dove would know. But I can tell my way of talking is being sneered at, 
even if I don’t know exactly what he means. 

“T’d be surprised if anything much has changed there,” he continues. 
“Nothing but coal dust and miners soaked in rotgut liquor from the Hob. 
Everybody just waiting to be subsumed by that ghastly wilderness.” 

His insult disturbs me less than his familiarity with District 12. Miners 
soaked in rotgut liquor from the Hob — that’s us, all right. The worst of us, 
anyway. 

“Come sit down, where I can see you.” 

Again, not an invitation, an order. I set the milk pitcher next to the 
nepenthe on the bar and circle around to sit on a sofa across from the 
president. The embroidered pillow at his elbow features the same image of 
the golden staircase as the pitcher. Matchy-matchy, as Maysilee would say. 

Snow’s eyes zoom in on the flint striker, as they did last night. “That’s 
a striking necklace.” 

Striking . . . flint striker . . . perhaps he’s recognized its true purpose 
and will have it banned from the arena. 

He holds out his hand. “May I have a look?” 

I could brush Maysilee off, but not the president. I untie the knot in 
the leather shoelace, give the flint striker a good squeeze in case this is 
good-bye, and pass it over. 

Snow rubs his thumbs over the bird and snake heads. “There’s a pretty 
pair.” He flips it. “And an inscription.” 

An inscription? I must’ve missed it in the whirlwind of reaping day. 
Without asking for permission, he pulls a pair of specs from his breast 
pocket and tilts the striker to catch the light. “Ah, very sweet. From L.D. 
Who might that be?” 

Lying to conceal her won’t help. Even though they didn’t air it to the 
country, I bet they showed Snow what happened during the reaping. Me 
trying to save a girl from the Peacekeepers. Her reaction to my reaping. 
Twelve’s a small district. If he has a mind to, he will track down my 
girlfriend. 

“Lenore,” I say. 


“But Lenore what? No, no, don’t tell me. Let me guess.D...D... 
That’s a tough one. None of the usual suspects, but they so rarely are. I can 
think of plenty prefaced by deep or dark. Deep blue. Dark green. But that’s 
not how they work. Perhaps something in nature? Like amber or ivory. 
Daffodil... dandelion . . . diamond? No, that’s no color at all, really. All 
right, I’m stumped. Lenore what?” 

The milk has soured in my stomach at his musings and what they 
reveal. He knows Lenore Dove is Covey; only they name their children this 
way. First name from a ballad, second a color. Amber and Ivory are actual 
family names. How has he unearthed this obscure fact about a pocket of 
musicians in the throwaway district of 12? Capitol informers? 

“Dove,” I tell him. 

“Dove!” He smacks his forehead. “Dove. I have always heard ‘dove 
color,’ though. It’s a bit of a cheat. But who could resist when you get both 
the color and the bird? And we know how they feel about their birds.” 

He returns the striker. On the back, in minuscule script, are the words 
I’d missed. For H. I love you like all-fire. L.D. 

“Do you know much about doves, Haymitch?” 

“They’re peaceful.” 

“Tf they are, they’re outliers. All the birds I’ve encountered are 
vicious.” A dribble of bloody spittle leaks from Snow’s mouth. “Bet I know 
a thing or two about your dove.” 

“Like what?” 

“Like she’s delightful to look at, swishes around in bright colors, and 
sings like a mockingjay. You love her. And oh, how she seems to love you. 
Except sometimes you wonder, because her plans don’t include you at all.” 

Not exactly, but too close. I think of the misty look she gets when she 
talks about the open road, the life of the Covey, and a kind of freedom that 
has nothing to do with me. Worse, I think of Clay Chance and the fire under 
the reaping stage and how there’s a part of her she refuses to share with me. 
She’d say it was to keep me safe, but maybe she just doesn’t trust me with 
her secrets. 

“She loves me,” I insist. 

“No doubt she says so. But believe me, romantically speaking, you’re 
dodging a bullet with these Games.” 

“So I should be thanking you?” 


Snow laughs. “You should. Although perhaps not for that.” 

“For what? You’re sending me to my death in the Games.” 

“Yes, your behavior has guaranteed that.” 

There it is, in case I had a shred of hope left. Straight from the horse’s 
mouth. Allies or no, I am a dead man walking. 

“On the good side,” he continues, “with you out of the picture, Lenore 
Dove and your family should be free to enjoy long and happy lives.” 

Even though their safety is my greatest concern, his reminder that 
their future will not include me is, as Maysilee would say, “a special kind of 
vicious.” 

Snow dabs at the spittle with his shirt cuff. “But there are many 
different ways to die in the arena. You might get stabbed, or strangled, or 
die of thirst. Death by mutt tends to be the most memorable. We have some 
beauties this year. Programmable to serve individual tributes. And far 
scarier than the weasels.” 

He watched it, then. Our tribute session in the kitchen where we 
revealed our final wishes. “I have no say in that.” 

“No, but I do. And I will orchestrate your death based on your 
behavior from here on out. You decide what you want Lenore Dove and 
your mother and that dear little brother of yours to see. You can die clean 
and fair, or we can open the Games with the slowest, most agonizing death 
ever to befall a tribute. And yes, you should be thanking me for giving you 
the option.” 

I meet those pale blue eyes. “I guess you’ve got me.” 

“Don’t feel too badly. You’re in good company. You know, my family 
has its own little aphorism.” 

“What’s that?” 

“Snow lands on top.” Without shifting his focus from me, he calls out, 
“Hide-and-seek is over! You can join us now!” 

Who is he summoning? My torturers, brought in to reinforce his 
threat? 

“So, no more unauthorized chariot rides, I think. No mocking me on 
or off camera,” he continues. “And I have a belated birthday gift for you. I 
want it treated with the gratitude it deserves.” He inclines his head in the 
direction of the conservatory. 

Standing in the doorway is Louella McCoy. 


PART II 


“THE RASCAL” 


“J 


My heart leaps, then sinks like a stone. I feel Louella’s crushed skull 
leaking hot blood into my hand. See her vacant eyes. She was good and 
dead in a way that defied return. So who is this girl in the doorway? 

She sure looks like Louella. Same size, same height. Heart-shaped 
face, big gray eyes, long dark braids. Her fingernails are bitten down and 
there’s a scar on her forehead that matches the one the real Louella got 
falling off our cistern. She wears the District 12 training outfit, as if she’d 
dressed at the apartment with us this morning. Maysilee’s purple and yellow 
flower bead necklace hangs over her collar. She checks every box. 

But this isn’t Louella. In the same way you instinctively know the 
waxed pears on the table lack juice, this girl lacks Louella’s essence. 

“Come in. You know Haymitch,” the president says. 

Fake Louella crosses to the end of the table. “Hello, Haymitch.” 

The accent’s only slightly off, but the greeting’s a dead giveaway. 
Louella is a “Hey, Hay” or “How you?” kind of girl. Her cheekbones look 
funny, too. Like they’ve shot something into her face to make it fuller. Most 
of all, she won’t look me in the eye, which my sweetheart never failed to 
do. 

“Who are you?” I ask her. 


She stares at the mess of pears on the table, her eyes unfocused. “My 
name is Louella McCoy. I’m from District Twelve.” 

“You’re not,” I tell her, then address Snow. “She’s not. Anyone can 
see it.” 

“T doubt it. Her family, maybe a few close friends. No one outside of 
the drunken audience at the parade even witnessed the accident. People will 
believe she’s Louella. Especially since you’|l be there by her side, coaching 
her, like the good ally you are. A perfect pair in what I am determined to 
make a perfect Quarter Quell.” 

I understand now. The people who saw the crash in person will be told 
Louella recovered. Incitatus Loomy, the parade master, has been killed for 
his incompetence. Poisoned by a plate of oysters that Snow somehow 
survived. And it is up to me and Fake Louella here to cover the worst 
casualty of the evening. 

Plutarch hustles into the room with a glass of milk and a plate of rolls. 
He pulls up short at the sight of Louella. “Is that —?” 

“Louella McCoy,” says Snow. “Ah, my bread.” He takes a big bite of 
a roll and grunts in approval. “Fresh. I think we’re done here, if you’d like 
to return our tributes to their accommodations. Louella, this is Plutarch.” 

“Hello, Plutarch.” 

“Hello.” He can’t stop staring at her. 

“She’s a good body double. We were lucky,” says Snow. 

“Yes, Mr. President. She certainly is. This way, kids.” Fake Louella 
and I follow Plutarch down a few halls of ancestors before he speaks again. 
“T did not know about any of this. He just said he wanted to talk to you.” 

“Right,” I say. “Who is she?” 

“Best guess .. . child of traitors. Could be either district or Capitol. 
She might not even know herself. No question they’ve programmed her. 
Probably drugged her as well.” 

Fake Louella chimes in. “Hello, Plutarch. My name is Louella 
McCoy. I’m from District Twelve.” 

“So, he’s going to send her in, whoever she is, and get her killed in the 
Games?” I ask. 

“That seems to be the current plan,” admits Plutarch. “I don’t approve 
of this.” 


“You’re my hero. I hope I’m just like you when I grow up. Oh, wait a 
minute, that won’t be happening.” 

A Peacekeeper van idles at the entrance. I climb in before they can 
cuff me. Fake Louella crawls into the van and sits on the floor. “Hello, 
Haymitch. My name is Louella McCoy. I’m from District Twelve.” 

“She’s going to knock ’em dead at the interview,” I say to Plutarch, 
then slam the door shut myself. 

The whole way back, in the dark, I’m terrified she’s going to touch 
me. I hate her, and I hate what her presence will require of me, even though 
I know none of this is her fault. 

Back at the apartment, Maysilee, Wyatt, and our mentors wait for my 
return in the living room. When I walk in with Fake Louella, a general gasp 
goes up. 

I point them out. “This is Maysilee and Wyatt. And those are our 
mentors, Mags and Wiress.” 

Fake Louella fixates on the toes of her boots. “Hello, Maysilee, 
Wyatt, Mags, and Wiress.” 

“But they couldn’t have —” Wyatt begins. “Who are you?” 

“My name is Louella McCoy. I’m from District Twelve.” 

After a long pause, Maysilee says, “That’s not sleeping in my room.” 

Mags shushes her. “Where did she come from?” 

“President Snow introduced us in Plutarch Heavensbee’s library. She’s 
been drugged or programmed or something. We’re supposed to pretend 
she’s real for the cameras. I have no idea who she is.” 

“She’s a stale marshmallow,” says Maysilee. “We’re supposed to sell 
her.” 

Mags touches Fake Louella’s shoulder. “Are you hungry?” The girl 
shrinks away, then looks up at her, confused. “Let’s all have something to 
eat.” 

We gather around the table in the kitchen, where Wiress ladles stew 
into our bowls. Mags places a spoon in Fake Louella’s hand. She grasps it 
in her fist, wraps her arm protectively around her bowl, and begins 
shoveling in the stew while little whimpering sounds escape her lips. 

“They’ve starved her,” says Wiress. “Among other things.” 

She’s right. While Louella’s wrists were lean, Fake Louella’s tend 
toward bony. No wonder they had to plump up her face. The irrational 


anger I’ve held against this girl dissolves into pity as she lifts her bowl to 
lick it clean like a dog. 

“Would you like some more? We have plenty,” says Mags. 

“Bread?” Wiress holds out the basket of assorted rolls to her. 

Fake Louella stares in fascination at the offering, then her fingers 
close on a dark crescent-shaped roll dotted with seeds. She holds it to her 
nose and inhales the scent, her breath coming in short gasps. 

Wiress and Mags exchange a look. “Are you from District Eleven, 
child?” Mags says softly. Fake Louella begins to cry, pressing the roll 
against her lips and pawing at her ear. “It’s all right, litthke one. Come with 
me.” She wraps an arm around the girl and leads her out of the kitchen. 

“Whoever she is, I guess she’s ours now,” says Wyatt. 

I’m surprised to hear something this kindhearted coming out of an 
oddsmaker, but we all feel it. We can’t pile any more hurt on Fake Louella. 
I guess I'll do my best to look out for her, just think of her as another 
District 6 dove. 

“You’re right,” I say. “But I can’t call her Louella.” 

“Something too different may confuse her further,” warns Wiress. 

“How about Lou Lou?” suggests Maysilee. “I used to have a pet 
canary by that name.” 

I know this about Maysilee because Lenore Dove caught wind of it 
and was infuriated that anyone would ever cage a bird, in particular a 
songbird. But that doesn’t seem a reason to reject the name. “TI think I can 
handle that,” I say. Louella McCoy was definitely not a Lou Lou. 

Mags returns, troubled. “I put her to bed. There’s some sort of device 
attached to her chest, pumping a drug into her, I think. I was afraid to 
remove it. That might kill her. I’ve seen something similar before.” 

“Why did you ask if she was from Eleven?” says Maysilee. 

“The roll she chose. With the seeds. It’s theirs.” 

The arrival of Lou Lou has steamrolled the boost we got from joining 
the Newcomers. A couple of hours ago we had a clear direction, but Snow’s 
gift has reminded us of our frailty and the futility of opposing him. I can’t 
remember what our feeble plan was, or why it mattered. We eat supper in 
silence, each occupied with our own dreary thoughts. 

Dreary. Lenore Dove taught me that word. It’s in the first line of her 
song. What I wouldn’t give to see her one more time. 


There was a moment, when Snow said he had a gift for me, that I 
thought he meant Lenore Dove. The way he was going on about the flint 
striker and the Covey. Glad it wasn’t, though. She’s much safer in that 
“ghastly wilderness” around 12. 

Mags and Wiress try to get us back on track. After supper, we gather 
in the living room and talk through our day. Mags seems pleased with the 
alliance and encourages us to pursue it. I feel better about teaming up with 
Wyatt and Maysilee as well. Wyatt’s more honorable than he has any right 
to be, given his family, and Maysilee won a lot of points by helping the 
other tributes with their tokens. 

Wiress asks if there are any clues about the arena we might have 
picked up in training. 

“Tarps,” says Wyatt, without missing a beat. 

“Like... sheets of plastic?” I ask. 

“Yeah. Did you see that one lady’s booth? All she did was show you 
different things to do with a tarp. Make a poncho, collect rainwater, turn it 
into a pack. Made me think it was going to be wet in there. Because in the 
mines, we use them to keep things dry.” 

“T think you may be onto something,” says Wiress. “What about you, 
Maysilee?” 

“T didn’t get to many booths. I was too busy making tokens. Trying to 
complement people’s outfits. But you know how we’re all in different 
colors? They’re the same colors we were wearing last night in the chariots. 
Red for Ten, peach for Eight. And if they end up dressing us like that in the 
arena, which they might do to help the audience keep us straight, then being 
in black could be a real plus. Especially at night. We may be able to move 
about to gather food or whatever, while other districts have to hide.” 

“Also very good,” says Wiress. “Haymitch, did you notice anything?” 

“Well, right about now I’m noticing how good Wyatt and Maysilee 
are at noticing things. I need to pay more attention. But there’s this.” I tell 
them about Beetee and the potato, fudging the science part. “All I can glean 
from that is it could be dark and root vegetables might come in handy.” 

“Tf it’s wet, like Wyatt thinks, then there may be no dry wood and 
building a fire for light won’t be an option, so we’|l have to plug into 
potatoes,” says Maysilee. 

Wyatt considers this. “Or maybe we’ll have to dig for food.” 


“That’s an interesting connection,” says Mags. 

He shrugs. “It’s no great shakes. I dig for a living.” 

At bedtime, we stand outside the girls’ room, watching Lou Lou 
sleep, unsure what to do. 

“T can take your bed,” I tell Maysilee. 

“No,” she says. “It’s okay.” 

“We could come sleep on your floor,” offers Wyatt. “Probably closer 
to what the arena will be like anyway.” 

So that’s what we do. Mags helps Wyatt and me haul our bedclothes 
and some sofa cushions in and we make up pallets on the floor. 

“Do you think we should practice being on watch?” asks Maysilee 
when we’re all ready for lights-out. 

“Good idea. Ill go first.” I settle in cross-legged with a blanket over 
my lap. 

Mags checks on Lou Lou one last time, tells us good night, and turns 
out the lights as she closes the door behind her. 

After a time, Wyatt falls asleep and starts up the chain saw. Maysilee’s 
so buried in her covers I can’t tell her status. My ribs ache and I lean back 
on Lou Lou’s bed, stretching out my arms and letting her mattress take their 
weight. 

Lou Lou stirs fitfully, and I hear her murmuring something but can’t 
make out the words. Don’t really want to know. It won’t be good. Dog- 
tired, I start to doze off but startle at the feel of frigid little fingers clutching 
mine. In her sleep, Lou Lou’s rolled over onto her side. She holds on to my 
hand for dear life, her pulse beating fast like a baby bird’s heart. 

I remember Louella’s hand taking mine on the train, and resist the 
impulse to pull away. “It’s okay, Lou Lou,” I whisper, sort of patting her 
side. “No one here will hurt you.” 

I could try a lullaby to soothe her, but I don’t want to wake the others. 
Not much of a singer anyway, and I’m supposed to be practicing keeping 
watch for the arena. I think how Lenore Dove sings to me sometimes. 
Lonely for her, I close my eyes for a moment and let her voice find me... . 


While I nodded, nearly napping, suddenly there came a tapping, 
As of some one gently rapping, rapping at my chamber door — 
“°Tis some visitor,” I muttered, “tapping at my chamber door — 


“Only this and nothing more.” 


I jerk awake. Was that a tapping? Or did I dream it? 

The strip of light under the door, the numbers on the bed-table clock, 
even the blinking green light of the device on the wall — a camera? A 
smoke detector? A temperature controller? — have all vanished. Only the 
faint glow of the Capitol city lights through the window blinds keeps the 
dark at bay. The humming of the apartment has been stilled; no purring 
machines or soft currents break the silence. Far away, a car honks. Then 
nothing. Under my blanket, I sweat. The warm, stagnant air smells like the 
inside of the cistern and stale supper. 

And someone’s definitely rapping at my chamber door. Gently. I hear 
the turn of the knob, the brush of the wood against carpet. 

A figure comes around the door, holding something that emanates a 
thin beam of light. It’s a pair of boiled potatoes, connected to a pea-sized 
bulb. Beetee raises a finger to his lips, then tilts his head for me to follow. 
Careful not to wake anyone, I detach my hand from Lou Lou’s and slip out 
of the bedroom. Moving away from the door, Beetee and I speak in hushed 
voices. 

“What are you doing here?” I ask. 

Beetee’s slightly short of breath. “I came up the utility steps from the 
third floor. Wiress knocked out the power in the building. The surveillance 
cameras are down. She estimates we have about ten minutes left. Are you 
serious about breaking the arena?” 

“Yes! Just tell me what I have to do. What breaks a machine?” 

“Time, usually. With it comes fatigue, wear and tear, erosion, creep. 
But we don’t have the luxury of time, so we’ll need a different approach. 
You saw Wiress’s arena last year. Did you wonder how they ran it?” 

“From the Capitol, right? They show the control room during the 
Games... .” 

“Yes, they show the commands being issued, and some can be 
triggered remotely. But these days, there’s also a Gamemaker level at the 
actual arena to carry out certain orders. An entire sub-terranean floor, 
nicknamed Sub-A, that they never show the audience. It destroys the 
illusion of the arena being controlled from afar. On Sub-A they manage 
manual tasks, like unleashing the mutts or stocking a feast. You’! be 


launched from there in a few days. But all of that is secondary to the real 
job of managing the onsite computer system that’s essential to the running 
of the Games. That’s our team’s target. The arena’s brain.” 

My whole life I’ve watched the Games without even questioning how 
the arenas actually worked. I don’t know what I thought breaking the arena 
meant — me chopping at some cable or something with an ax? Anyway, it 
didn’t involve an underground computer that, even if I could reach, I 
wouldn’t know how to break . . . unless I could go at it with the 
aforementioned ax. 

But Beetee mentioned a team. Maybe I can be the brawn, and Ampert 
can do the breaking. 

“So we’re going to try to find this computer and pull its plug? Enter 
bad commands?” 

Beetee shakes his head. “It would be virtually impossible for one of 
you to reach it. The computer’s in a restricted area with high-tech security 
systems in place. But the brain can’t operate unless other parts of the body 
are sound. Like this building tonight. When the electricity is cut off, the 
place goes dead.” 

“We’re going to knock out the power?” 

“Oh, no, Haymitch. Even if we happen to, they have an enormous 
backup generator at the top end, just outside the arena itself.” 

“So what, then?” 

“We’re going to drown it.” 


“Drown it?” I guess Wyatt was right about the arena being wet. 
“How?” 

“The arena has the capacity to drown itself. Creating the tribute 
ecosystem requires electricity, plumbing, heating, cooling, ventilation, 
everything your house would have,” says Beetee. 

“My house doesn’t have half those things. Does yours?” I ask. 

“T live in the Victor’s Village now, so yes, it does.” 

We have a Victor’s Village in 12, too. A dozen fancy houses you get 
to live in for the rest of your life if you win the Games. Burdock and I used 
to steal over there and peek in the windows on a summer’s night. In the 
moonlight, we could see enough to tell they had furniture and hanging 
lights and bathtubs like the ones here. The village was built after our lone 
victor, though, so no one’s ever lived in it. 

Beetee continues. “My point is that, for at least a few weeks, the arena 
has to be capable of sustaining the tributes and supporting the set pieces. I 
haven’t seen the plan for the actual arena, but over a year ago, they had me 
look over the Sub-A design. In the northern part of the arena, there’s an 
enormous water tank that sits just below the surface. Arenas can require a 


lot of water to sustain lakes, create rainstorms, quench fires. This reservoir 
seems especially large.” 

“Then if the computer is the brain, this would be the bladder,” I say. 

He laughs a bit. “Yes. Exactly. And once the bladder has ruptured, it 
will flood the brain, leaving it inoperable.” 

My brain’s starting to get flooded as well. “But. . . if I can’t reach the 
brain, how will I reach the bladder?” 

“Throughout the arena, there are hatches that connect the surface to 
the utility corridors below. You’ ll enter through one yourself. The hatches 
are used by the Gamemakers to introduce elements into the arena. You’ ll 
access the utility corridors by way of a mutt portal.” 

“A mutt portal,” I repeat. 

“Yes. The plans showed dozens of these. It must be a mutt-heavy 
program.” 

I try not to think about the weasels. “Okay, so I find a mutt portal, 
climb down to the utility corridor. . .” 

“Locate the tank and blow a hole in it, releasing the water. Gravity 
should take care of the rest. It will naturally flood Sub-A.” 

I feel overwhelmed. “Okay, hold on. This is a lot. How am I supposed 
to blow a hole in the tank? Are you sending me in there with explosives?” 

“Tt won’t be just you. You’ ll have Ampert.” At the mention of his 
son’s name, his voice catches and a spasm of pain crosses his face. 

“This plan sounds . . . pretty dangerous,” I venture. “Maybe I can do it 
without him.” 

For the first time, his agony breaks through his restraint. “They reaped 
him to kill him, Haymitch! To punish me! I can think of no realistic 
scenario in which he does not die. I can only hope that his death is quick 
and not in vain.” 

I know he’s right. Even without this wild plot to break the arena, 
Ampert’s marked for death, like me. If the Careers don’t take him out, the 
Gamemakers will. “I’m so sorry. I’ll try to look out for him in there.” 

“Don’t let him suffer,” whispers Beetee. 

“T’ll do my best,” I promise. 

“That’s a great comfort to me. Thank you.” He wipes his glasses and 
settles them firmly back in place. “So, do you know how to use 
explosives?” 


Oddly enough, I do a bit. We have classes in coal produc-tion. Dull as 
dust usually. But since we’re the future miners of Panem, they do show us 
how coal gets mined, which can involve placing explosives in a hole in the 
rock, inserting a blasting cap with a length of fuse attached, and then 
lighting it. We practice this with fake stuff. Inert, they call it. The real stuff 
can kill you. 

“T know the basics,” I say. “For the coal mines. But where am I going 
to get the fuse and —” 

“We’re working that out now. How to smuggle the materials past 
security. But unlike the components used in your mines, which as I’m sure 
you know can be deadly, I have specifically designed these to be safe. Both 
chemically and structurally. They cannot be set off unintentionally by you 
or anything else. To set them off, you will need to fully assemble the bomb 
correctly and light the fuse with fire.” 

That makes me a little calmer. I don’t need a blasting cap exploding 
on me before it’s time to blow a hole in the tank. My fingers find my flint 
striker. Lenore Dove’s voice floats in from the Meadow. “Only you don’t 
have to have flint. Any decent sparking rock like quartz will do.” 

“Will there be rocks in there, do you think? Flint or quartz?” I ask. 

“Possibly. I can try to find out. Why?” 

“Tf there are, I can handle that last one.” I lift my chin and display my 
gift. “Flint striker.” 

Beetee looks impressed. “Very clever. Never underestimate Twelve, as 
I always say.” 

“You do?” Be nice if someone said something approving about us for 
a change. 

“T do. You don’t think like the rest of us. You’ve done a better job of 
holding on to yourselves, despite the Capitol.” 

“They think we’re animals, so that helps.” 

Wiress appears, startling us. “You better finish. A repair crew just 
pulled up out front. It could be any time now.” 

“More to come. Don’t tell anyone what we’ve discussed.” Beetee 
vanishes in the dark. 

“Best get to bed,” Wiress instructs me. 

I return to my watch in the bedroom. After a few minutes, the power 
surges back with a gush of chilled air and a constellation of lights. A jumble 


of Beetee’s instructions fills my brain. What did I just agree to? Mutt 
portal... bladder... explosives .. . ? How on earth am I going to pull that 
off? Doubt consumes me. Probably I should just be the fire maker and 
Ampert should set the explosives. But does he have the physical strength to 
manage the mutt portal and the climb? And what if I do pull it off? What if 
I break the arena? 

How Lenore Dove would love it if she knew I’d bested the Capitol 
and stopped the Games, at least for this year. There’s glory in that. Dignity. 
And if I did it using her flint striker? It’d be like we did it together. Painted 
a poster that no one could ignore. Outsmarted the Capitol and forced their 
citizens to see us as something other than mindless animals. 

“Haymitch?” Maysilee stirs. “I’ll take over now.” 

“Okay, thanks.” She doesn’t sound drowsy. Either she woke with a 
start or she’s never been asleep. 

“Everything all right?” she asks. 

I wonder if she saw me leave and tried to overhear my conversation 
with Beetee, but I can’t talk about it. The fewer people who know about the 
plot, the better, and while I like her more in the Capitol than I did in 12, 
we're not exactly confidants. 

“Well, there was a power outage, but they seemed to have fixed it,” I 
tell her. “’ Night.” Curling up in my blankets, I pretend to drift off until I 
actually do. 

In the morning, I find myself tempted to share Beetee’s plan with the 
others. Doesn’t feel honest not to. Lou Lou’s enough of a distraction to keep 
me from blurting it out. We decide the simplest way to manage her 
appearance is to pretend that while the Capitol miraculously managed to 
patch Louella up, she’s no longer right in the head. We’re counting on none 
of the other tributes having spent enough time with her to distinguish the 
difference between our real Louella and her body double. 

Lou Lou’s gone from averting her eyes to watching us constantly, as if 
she’s trying to piece together a puzzle. She tugs on her ear a lot, which 
makes me wonder if it hurts, because that’s what Sid used to do when he 
had an earache. When she goes to the bathroom, Wiress says, “I think she 
has an audio implant. Probably a two-way transmitter.” 

“Why?” asks Wyatt. 

“So they can tell her what to say. Direct her behavior.” 


“Hear what she hears,” says Mags. 

She doesn’t have to explain the ramifications of that. Don’t tell Lou 
Lou any secrets. There’s a flip side to that, though. We can gain an 
advantage by telling her lies. During the Dark Days, the Capitol spied on us 
with jabberjays, mutts that looked like regular birds but could record the 
rebels’ conversations and play them back word for word. We figured this 
out and fed them false information. The Capitol released the jabberjays at 
the end of the war, thinking they’d die off, which they did, but not before 
they’d sired a whole new species by mating with female mockingbirds, 
creating Lenore Dove’s precious mockingjays. Now I guess Lou Lou is our 
own little jabberjay. 

When we join the other Newcomers in the gym, Lou Lou draws some 
questioning looks, but they seem to buy that she’s our girl, only brain- 
damaged. None of them knew Louella or had more than a passing look at 
her, after all. 

“You have to be careful what you say around her,” Maysilee warns 
them. “She’s not herself, and might repeat it to anyone.” 

When we break up to practice, Wyatt agrees to take her. Which is 
helpful, as I don’t need a jabberjay at the moment. 

Ampert catches my eye and we shake off the rest of the group. I don’t 
know how much Beetee has told him about the arena plot. But before I can 
broach that, he says, “My father says we need to get Nine to join our 
alliance.” 

We spot the yellow-clad tributes nearby at the shelter-building booth. 
“Any specific reason why? I mean, Five and Eleven are still uncommitted, 
and they look a lot stronger.” 

“He just said they were essential. I tried the first day, but they brushed 
me off. I wonder if they think I’m stuck-up.” 

“You? Why would they think that?” 

“Because I’m from Three. Because I know the tech stuff, maybe. 
Nine’s in the fields a lot. I don’t think they get much schooling out there, 
and everybody knows we do. People call us eggheads.” 

“Egghead’s not so bad.” 

“It’s not a compliment. Anyway, I couldn’t get anywhere with them. 
They’re not big talkers.” 


Like my pa, I think. He was plenty smart, just didn’t feel the need to 
share every thought that traipsed through his brain. Nor did he much trust 
people who did. A lot of the miners are like that. 

“T’ll give it a shot,” I tell Ampert. “Why don’t you have another go at 
Eleven?” 

Halfway to the booth, Maysilee intercepts me. “What’s going on?” 

This could mean one of several things, especially if she was 
eavesdropping last night. I decide to play it straightforward. “Just going in 
for Nine.” 

“Do they need help with their tokens?” 

We turn to assess their token situation. They each wear a necklace of 
braided grass with a fist-sized sunflower hanging from it. 

Maysilee answers her own question. “Oh, my word, yes. Those are 
hideous. But you have to give them credit for trying, poor things. I guess 
salt dough clay’s all they could get their hands on.” 

I know the stuff. Once, over at Burdock’s, his ma mixed up some 
white flour, salt, and water into dough, and all us kids made little animals 
and stars and things. Too wasteful for my family, but the Everdeens could 
afford it on account of being hunters and having a little more disposable 
income. Nothing like the Donners, though. 

“Yeah,” I say, “I guess they ran out of gold.” 

Maysilee starts for 9, but I step in front of her. “Stop. We need them, 
Maysilee. And I can’t risk you insulting them when you think you’re being 
helpful. Anyway, their tokens aren’t so bad. Just kind of . . .” I struggle to 
describe the lumpy, overly bright yellow flowers. 

“Gaudy. Clunky. Shoddy.” 

“Uh-huh. And that’s why I’m going in alone.” 

She shrugs and walks away, but not far. Just to a nearby food- 
preparation booth. Skinning squirrels, making bread on your campfire 
coals, roasting stuff on a stick. Like we’re all going to a cookout. 

I get to the shelter booth in time to participate in a session with the 
four District 9 tributes. I can’t help thinking about what Mags said, that 
we'll likely be on the move. But maybe I can throw something together 
quick in a rainstorm. 

While this booth isn’t dedicated solely to tarps, they’re certainly 
featured. You can make a shelter by tying one between trees. Or tying a 


rope between trees, draping the tarp over it, and anchoring your tent with 
rocks. Or finding a fallen tree, leaning branches against it, and covering it 
with the tarp. Or building an A-frame from branches and throwing the tarp 
over it. Two tarps? Use one for the floor. If there are no tarps in the arena, 
they’re going to have some mighty disappointed tributes. 

Other tips include using your weapon, preferably an ax or a knife, to 
cut brush and branches, and finding a flat surface to build on so if it rains, 
the runoff doesn’t soak you. 

We’re supposed to work alone, so we each get a tarp and have at it. A 
half dozen upright posts and a thick column lying on the floor stand in for 
trees. I build a tent by fastening a rope between trunks and arranging a tarp 
over it, while quietly observing District 9. Their faces still healing from 
their last sunburn from home. Their calloused, capable hands. Their lean, 
muscled arms. Their quiet efficiency. Even without Beetee’s directive, I can 
see they’d make good allies. 

Just as I’m joining a couple of them at the rock pile, who saunters up 
but Panache. He’s all full of himself, grabbing a tarp and some sticks — 
like he’s even been at the lesson — and taking over the middle of the fake 
forest. The instructor frowns, because she automatically hates him, too, and 
I can feel District 9 shifting, so he’s not directly in any of their sight lines. 

I ignore him, carry my rocks back to my site, and start pinning the 
tarp edges to the ground. Panache singles out the biggest guy from 9, since, 
of course, he thinks he’!] be their leader, and corners him against the fallen 
log. “We’ve been thinking about letting you guys join the Career pack.” 

The guy’s face shows no emotion. “No.” 

Not “No, thanks” or “No for now but We'll talk it over.” Just a flat, 
definitive “No.” Then he goes back to laying branches against the log. 

This doesn’t land well with Panache, who clearly thinks he’s offered 
them the moon. “No?” He takes a threatening step toward the guy, then 
notices a Peacekeeper, hand on his taser, and stops. “What’re you looking 
at?” he says to the smallest girl from 9, who’s not looking at him, just 
making a bed from pine needles. She refuses to meet his eye, which makes 
him nuts. He snaps, “Fine. We'll kill you first, then!” Stepping forward, he 
yanks her sunflower from its grass braid and hurls it to the floor. The token 
shatters into a dozen pieces. Panache plows into the crowd before the 
Peacekeeper can respond. 


A small, pained cry escapes the girl’s lips as she crouches over the 
bits. The sunflower mattered, I think, even more than being her last handful 
of home. I bet someone close to her made it. Her ma or pa? Her sister or 
brother? Someone she loves. They made it to protect her and remind her 
how precious she is, to give her something to hold on to at the end, if the 
unthinkable happened and her name got called at the reaping. And now it’s 
chunks of salt flour dough dabbed with yellow paint. The other tributes 
from 9 gather around her, viewing the wreckage as silent tears roll down her 
cheeks. 

I don’t know what to do. I wish I could comfort the girl, but I don’t 
even know her name. And I can hardly make my move now, even if Beetee 
says 9 is essential. I’m racking my brain when sud-denly there’s Maysilee, 
kneeling across from the girl, mixing up some white gooey stuff on a leaf 
with a twig. She doesn’t ask permis-sion, she just carefully arranges the 
broken pieces into their original form, then begins to smear goo on the 
edges and glue the sunflower back together. And all of 9 just stands there, 
speechless, letting her. 

I notice a little piece of yellow by my boot and retrieve it, then cross 
to add it to the sunflower puzzle. Squatting down next to Maysilee, I ask, 
“What is that stuff?” 

“Tt’s glue. I made it with flour and water and salt from the food booth. 
It’s the best I could do.” She addresses the girl. “After it’s mended, you’ ll 
have to be very careful with it, since I couldn’t heat this up. Maybe your 
mentor can find you some proper glue at the quarters, but for now this 
should hold.” 

The girl wipes her tears and nods. Given the lack of communication, I 
take that as an opening. “That a sunflower?” She nods again. “I love those 
things. My ma tries to grow them in the garden every year. Guess yours are 
finer, though, with all that sun you have in Nine.” 

There’s a pause long enough to make me think I’ve failed, when she 
quietly offers, “We have big fields of them.” 

“Yeah? Bet that’s a pretty sight.” I spend a minute as if contemplating 
it. “My girl back home? She sings a song about sunflowers. An old-timey 
song.” Since the four tributes look somewhat interested, I give it a go, even 
though it’s a little weird. 


Ah Sun-flower! weary of time, 

Who countest the steps of the Sun: 
Seeking after that sweet golden clime 
Where the travellers journey is done. 


Okay, maybe too weird. Maysilee has her lips pressed tight together, 
like she’s trying not to laugh. Nothing from the rest of the group. Ampert’s 
right, these Niners are not a chatty crew. I forge on. “Well, it sounds better 
when she sings it.” The girl laughs a bit, but not mean. “I’m Haymitch, by 
the way. And she’s Maysilee.” 

“Kema. You’re with Ampert.” 

“Oh, yeah,” I say, like it’s been the farthest thing from my mind. “A 
bunch of us are teaming up. Calling ourselves the Newcomers.” I don’t 
reissue the invitation to join. Let them come to us. 

“He asked us, too,” Kerna says. “We said we didn’t want to.” 

“T said the same at first, then I thought, many hands make light work.” 
Okay, thanks for that homey aphorism, Mamaw. I’m worried it sounds 
idiotic given the circumstances, but they all think it over. 

“There,” says Maysilee, fitting the last piece in place. Looks good as 
new. She reknots the grass braid and carefully places it around Kerna’s 
neck. “Remember, see if they can get you some real glue at the apartment 
and reinforce it.” 

“Thank you, Maysilee,” says Kerna. 

The instructor tells us we have to make room for a new group. We’re 
running out of conversation anyway. I know if they’re reconsidering, they’ II 
have to discuss it before they accept. 

Maysilee and I join District 11 at the knot-tying booth, where I 
struggle with my square knot while she replicates everything they show her 
on the first try, even the snares. “Now you’re just showing off,” I say. 

She rolls her eyes. “Yes, I’m sure the Careers are quaking in their 
boots at my clove hitch. Let’s go throw some axes.” 

At lunchtime, without another word, the four baby chicks from 
District 9 sit among us. Ampert has brought in 11 as well. We’re now eight 
districts strong. At the far end of the bleachers, the orange-clad District 5 
has teamed up with the Careers. The lines are drawn. They’ve got more 
trained fighters, but we outnumber them two to one. Wyatt can barely 


contain himself as he calculates the odds. The Gamemakers buzz with this 
new development, gesturing at us, deep in conference, factoring the dual 
alliances into the Games. 

When we’ve finished our sandwiches, District 12 reunites at the 
edible-food section, which seems heavy on the poisonous mushrooms. Lou 
Lou keeps sticking them in her mouth, confounding the trainer. 

“T don’t know what she’s going to do in her private session with the 
Gamemakers,” Wyatt says. “But I guess they won’t be expecting much. Not 
sure what I’m doing either.” 

“You’re an expert on the Games, what with your oddsmaking and all. 
You could talk about that,” Maysilee suggests. “It’s more impressive than 
anything I’ve got.” 

“You should show them all the things you can do with a piece of 
cord,” I tell her. “You underrate it because it’s easy for you, but I think it’s 
pretty impressive.” 

“Hm, it’s a thought. At least it would make me unique. What are you 
going to do, Haymitch? Throw knives?” 

“T could, I guess. Or axes.” 

Everyone’s sent back to their respective locker rooms while the 
Gamemakers begin the private sessions. This will be our last chance to 
influence how they score us for the general public. Heavy Peacekeeper 
presence monitors the tension between the Careers and the Newcomers, but 
I have to say I feel a lot more secure with my alliance than I did in the 
shower. 

Lucky I’m slated to go last, because I have no idea how to handle the 
Gamemakers. Surely, they have footage of what went down at the reaping. 
Me “attacking” the Peacekeeper and being punished with a trip to the 
Games. And they witnessed my subversive act at the opening ceremonies 
live. No telling if they know about President Snow’s ultimatum in 
Plutarch’s library. ve avoided thinking about that encounter and how he 
threatened me with a slow and agonizing death for my loved ones to 
witness at the Games opening. I’m not planning to do anything else to call 
him out before the Games begin, now that I’m part of the plot to break the 
machine, and I can only hope that will keep me alive long enough to carry 
out my part of the plan. 


So, what can I show the Gamemakers that will reassure them that I’m 
now harmless to the Capitol? A dramatic shift to being a compliant tribute 
will be hard to sell. Another wrinkle is Lou Lou. They must know that I 
know she’s a fake. Especially since Louella mattered enough for me to 
carry her lifeless body to the president. 

Maybe she’s the key. Maybe I can say that Louella was the one thing I 
cared about protecting in the Games and now I’m all about myself. . . that 
I’m using the alliance for one purpose and one purpose only .. . that I’m 
determined to win these Games and get back to the girl I risked everything 
for and the family I had a touching good-bye with. I’Il convince them I 
want to be the first tribute from 12 to live in the Victor’s Village. I’m just a 
punk kid who tried to escape the Peacekeepers, confronted Snow, and spat 
on the audience for good measure. A guy who’s only out for himself. This 
is the one way I might be able to sell myself to the Gamemakers without 
rousing suspicions about my greater ambitions. To paint myself as a selfish 
troublemaker who’s determined to get home and live out his life as a rich 
and famous victor. 

The gym’s deserted when I walk out, my footsteps echoing off the 
walls, except for the neat rows of Gamemakers in their bleachers. The Head 
Gamemaker, Faustina Gripper, a short, anple woman with close-cropped 
metallic silver and gold curls, is distinguished by the purple fur collar on 
her snowy robe. She appraises me, then commands, “Tell us about 
yourself.” 

I cock my head, look her dead in the eye, and say, “I’m Haymitch 
Abernathy from District Twelve. I shouldn’t be here. I was reaped illegally, 
but no one cares. My neighbor, Louella McCoy, was the only person here I 
gave a hang about, but you killed her and brought in a body double. So, that 
kind of frees me up to win these Games.” 

“And what makes you think you can do that? We haven’t noticed that 
you possess any outstanding skills,” the Head Gamemaker says. 

“Really?” I smirk. “Because from where I’m standing, looks like I 
came up with thirty-one people who’ve promised to defend me. But maybe 
that strategy’s a little too subtle for you.” 

Her mouth tightens. “And you’re willing to let them die?” 

“Why not, lady? You are.” 


They dismiss me. I’m hoping I pulled off unlikable but focused on 
winning the Games. If I can score in the midrange, maybe I can still get a 
handful of sponsors. 

On the way out the door, the Peacekeepers collect my token for 
inspection. I run my fingers over the inscription and press my lips against 
the bird before placing it in a little basket marked with my name. It kills me 
having to let it go, knowing they may tag it as unfair and dispose of it. And 
besides the heartbreak, losing it means I will have to find another way to 
make fire to carry out Beetee’s plot. On the other hand, it’s the Capitol, and 
all they may see is a pretty necklace. Either way, my neck feels naked 
without it. 

None of us talk much on the van ride home. After a dinner of roasted 
chicken and mashed potatoes, we gather around the television in the living 
room for a special announcement of our individual scores. On a scale of one 
to twelve, the Careers mostly land in the eight-to-eleven range. With the 
exception of District 11, who bring in similar numbers, the Newcomers 
generally manage between four and seven. We’re announced last. Maysilee 
and Wyatt each get a six, Lou Lou pulls a three. 

And me? I get a one. 


I don’t remember anyone getting a one before. Ever. In fact, I’m hard- 
pressed to remember a two. Even threes are rare and reserved for extreme 
long shots like Lou Lou. How will the audience interpret this? That I’m 
weak? Friendless? A coward? Any way you slice it, it will not result in my 
getting sponsors. I’m going to be entirely on my own in the arena when it 
comes to supplies. 

“You must have gotten to them,” Maysilee says with satisfaction. 
“Between the reaping and Louella and spitting on the crowd. You really 
caught their attention.” 

“Well, that’s a sunny interpretation,” I reply. 

“Perhaps she’s right,” says Mags. “If nothing else, it’s distinctive. 
People will be gossiping about it. With forty-eight tributes, just becoming 
recognizable is a plus.” 

Wyatt shakes his head. “I don’t even know how to factor that into 
your odds. What’d you do anyway?” 

Good question. “I guess . . . not in so many words but. . . I accused 
them of murdering us.” 

“Yes!” says Lou Lou, her eyes boring through me. Then she winces 
and swipes at her ear. We can hear a faint but piercing tone that must be 


deafening in her head. When it eases, tears stream from her eyes and she’s 
gasping. Wyatt presses his finger against his lips and then hugs her tightly. 

I take the first watch again at bedtime, my mind swimming with 
strategy. The Gamemakers, no doubt under Snow’s direction, have made an 
example of me, and that displeasure could follow me into the arena. I may 
have doomed myself to a gory opening death. My hand seeks my flint 
striker for comfort, but finds only bare skin. They couldn’t even leave me 
that last token of Lenore Dove’s love. What did she think when they 
announced my score tonight? Since she didn’t get to witness all my reckless 
behavior here, she probably blames herself for me getting called out in the 
reaping. But how will she ever know that was only a teaspoon of trouble in 
my river of wrong? 

I feel like I’m a big risk now to the plot to disable the arena, but I’m 
sure Beetee’s figured that out. I stay awake through three watches, thinking 
he might pay me another visit. Eventually, my eyelids get so heavy I wake 
Wyatt to take over. 

Our mentors let us sleep in late, and I feel better when I find my 
precious necklace awaiting me at the kitchen table. All four of our tokens 
cleared, and we reach for them with eager hands. 

“Can I see yours now? Since it’s already off?” Maysilee asks me. 

What can I say? No, because my girlfriend hates you? We’re 
supposed to act like allies now, and I figure Lenore Dove will never know, 
so I pass over my token. 

Maysilee studies it meticulously, going over every bit of engraving 
and reading the inscription, which does not escape her notice as it did mine. 
“Well, the Covey have an eye for beauty, that’s for sure.” 

“Heard you have one of Tam Amber’s pins,” I say. 

She wrinkles her nose. “Oh, that. It’s well made, but I don’t care much 
for mockingjays. Something unnatural about a bird that’s half-mutt.” 

Never thought of it that way. “Some people think that’s a victory in 
itself. Way they escaped the Capitol and survived.” 

“Do they?” says Maysilee. “Well, if I escape the Capitol and survive, 
maybe I’ Il give that pin a second chance.” 

“Tf you don’t, I’m sure Lenore Dove would be happy to take it off 
your hands,” I say. 


“Lenore Dove...” Maysilee gives me a knowing smile. “She doesn’t 
like me, your girlfriend. And it’s not because of any pin.” 

“Because you’re so mean, you think?” I ask innocently. 

Maysilee laughs. “Partly, maybe. But mostly because I know her 
secret and she hates being at my mercy.” 

Her secret? “What’s that mean?” 

“Tt means how come she’s got orange paint on her fingernails when 
she shows up to play for the mayor’s birthday party?” She hands me back 
the token. “You ask her that if you get home.” 

I look down at the necklace in confusion. There’s orange on some of 
the feathers. She was probably just helping Tam Amber. Or maybe she tried 
painting them to match her lipstick. I guess Maysilee made some crack 
about Lenore Dove having ugly nails. But why is that a secret that would 
put her at Maysilee’s mercy? Nail polish is pricey — is Maysilee suggesting 
Lenore Dove stole it? 

“Tell me now,” I say. 

“T told you, it’s a secret. Those should be respected.” Maysilee 
carefully arranges her necklaces — apparently, the Gamemakers viewed her 
collection as a single token — and hooks the purple and yellow flowers 
around Lou Lou’s neck. “Unless, of course, you’ve got one to trade? Then 
we’d have something to talk about.” 

“Some girl thing,” Wyatt comments as he puts on his token. “They 
never make sense.” 

“You said a mouthful,” I agree. The scrip coin Maysilee wove into 
Wyatt’s cord distracts me. She designed it so it’s easy to pop the coin in and 
out of the weave because flipping it through his fingers helps Wyatt think. 

“Hey, what’s that coin made of? Nickel?” I ask. 

“Zinc, I think,” says Wyatt. 

“Potato battery,” I remind him. “Keep an eye out for copper.” 

Maysilee fishes the flower medallion from the display at her neck. 
“Already on it.” 

“Of course you are, Miss Donner,” I say. “If the Gamemakers cleared 
those, maybe they’re hoping you’ ll use them.” 

Just then, Drusilla shows up and calls us into the living room so she 
can help with our interview prep. After the reaping and chariot fiascos, 


she’s feeling some heat. Our training numbers aren’t doing her any favors 
either. This is her last big event for the Quell and she needs it to go well. 

“Listen, you lot, there are always softhearted dolts who will send 
supplies to losers like you, if they can find some way to relate to you. The 
only one who’s got any name recognition right now is Haymitch, because 
people are trying to figure out why his score’s so abysmal. He also got some 
attention for his appalling behavior toward the audience at the parade. But 
the rest of you are basically nonexistent. This interview will be your last 
chance to make some sort of impression before the Games begin. Anything 
that makes you stand out is a plus. Make me remember you. So, who are 
you? Why should I want to lay my money on you? What are you selling?” 

With an audience of Drusilla, Mags, Wiress, and ourselves we clear a 
space and try to simulate our upcoming interviews. Drusilla plays Caesar 
Flickerman, the smooth-talking host of the event. She loses patience with 
Lou Lou almost immediately, given that the child can’t do much more than 
repeat, “My name is Louella McCoy. I’m from District Twelve.” 

“That’s absolutely dreadful,” says Drusilla. “Flickerman will eat you 
alive. What’s wrong with you anyway? Snap out of it!” She gives Lou Lou 
a shake by the shoulders. 

The contact triggers something in Lou Lou, who begins to scream, 
“You’re murdering us! You’re murdering us!” 

Drusilla gasps and raises her hand to slap Lou Lou, but the rest of us 
intervene, and Mags takes Lou Lou into the bedroom. 

“That isn’t Louella McCoy,” Maysilee tells Drusilla. “She’s dead. 
That’s a body double. Some little girl the Capitol has tortured until she can’t 
even remember her real name. But even she can see the obvious. You’re 
murdering us.” 

Drusilla looks around for backup, but the Peacekeepers remained 
downstairs and Wiress isn’t giving any. So there’s just her and us district 
piglets, including Maysilee, who slaps back. She composes herself. “That’s 
not my department. Your interviews are.” She points to Wyatt. “You’re up.” 

After they exchange niceties, she asks Wyatt what makes him special. 

“1’m an oddsmaker,” he says without hesitation. 

“An oddsmaker? What’s that?” 

“T set the odds for gambling events back in Twelve. I give odds on 
who will win the Hunger Games.” 


“You do?” asks Drusilla skeptically. 

“T do.” 

“So, who do you recommend our audience bet on?” 

Wyatt takes a deep breath and rattles off his projections. “Well, it’s 
tempting to go for the low-hanging fruit. The odds will always look good 
for most of the Careers. Like Panache from District One, the largest tribute, 
trained, high score, I’d give him eleven-to-five odds, which means he has a 
thirty-one-point-two-five percent chance of winning. Or Maritte from Four, 
she’s obviously a contender, with her physique and an eleven from the 
Game-makers, probably an indication that she’s exceptional with a trident. 
I’d say six to one, or a fourteen-point-two-nine percent.” 

“Hmph. Fancy math, but nothing new there,” says Drusilla. 
“Everybody knows the Careers are a good bet.” 

“Obviously,” returns Wyatt. “But what’s made these Games a novelty 
is that all forty-eight tributes have locked into alliances before the start. 
Nothing like this has ever happened before. The Careers are powerful, yes, 
but the Newcomers outnumber them two to one. If I was betting, sure, I’d 
take a look at the Careers, but if the alliances really hold, if the tributes 
really defend each other to the death, anyone has a shot. And if you’re not 
afraid of some risk, it’s better bang for your buck if you back a more 
obscure Newcomer because the odds are not in their favor, so they’ ll pay 
off higher in the end.” 

“Give me a name,” says Drusilla. 

“Haymitch Abernathy,” says Wyatt. 

“He scored a one.” 

“Exactly. With no apparent handicaps. He’s physically fit and his 
behavior suggests a boldness that disturbs the Gamemakers.” 

Thrown, I interject, “You don’t have to do that, Wyatt.” 

“I’m not doing anything, Haymitch. This is my honest assessment of 
your chances. Maysilee’s not a bad bet either.” 

“What about yourself?” asks Drusilla. 

“Oh, I wouldn’t bet on me,” admits Wyatt. “I simply —” 

“No!” cuts in Wiress. “Don’t underrate yourself, Wyatt. No other 
tribute can do what you just did. Play up how intelligence matters. 
Reference me. Say Wiress won the Games last year without shedding a drop 
of blood. Brains matter.” 


Wyatt thinks this over a moment, then turns to Drusilla. “Here’s the 
thing. At any given moment in the Hunger Games, I will know everybody’s 
odds, how they stack up against each other, and how likely they are to 
receive gifts. It should keep me from making a lot of stupid mistakes. That’s 
my advantage. It’s up to you if you’re smart enough to see it.” 

“Good,” says Wiress. “Yes. Position yourself as the smart choice for 
bettors. People who pride themselves on being smart will respond to that.” 

When it’s Maysilee’s turn, she and Drusilla stare daggers at each 
other, but refrain from exchanging blows. 

“So, Miss Donner, what do you think of the Capitol?” 

“T think I can’t believe people with so much money have such bad 
taste. Here you are with mountains of cash, and this is where you wound 
up?” She gives Drusilla’s outfit — a red-and-white-striped jumpsuit with a 
matching beanie — the once-over. “You look like you jumped right off our 
candy counter back home. Just a peppermint-stick nightmare, you are.” 

Drusilla’s hand goes to her collar. “You’re not going to make any 
friends with this approach, you little shrew.” 

“Who said I wanted friends? I’m here to make people remember me, 
*member? It’s not just you, it’s everyone I saw from the chariot. Garish 
color, unflattering lines. And there are some fashion choices you people are 
going to regret. Why you’d want to resemble a barnyard animal is beyond 
me, but I hope those goat horns are removable. And to the woman with the 
diamonds implanted along her teeth? People age, there’s no shame in that, 
but I think those stones are going to make eating a trial when those gums 
recede.” 

“So, we should be emulating what — District Twelve?” sputters 
Drusilla. 

“Heavens, no. People who don’t have two cents to rub together can 
hardly be expected to dress well. Although there’s not a miner in Twelve 
who doesn’t have a better physique than the people I witnessed in that 
crowd. All the surgery in the world won’t change that.” 

“What —?” 

“And all the money in the world won’t buy good taste. Clearly. Some 
people in Twelve have a lot more than what I’m witnessing here.” 

“Are you done?” Drusilla says. 

“Honestly, I have barely warmed up.” 


“Sit down.” 

It’s Wiress who concludes, “It’s a risky strategy, but yes, they’ll 
remember you.” 

Mags comes back, holding a handkerchief dotted in blood. “She’s 
drifted off. I don’t know what they’ve got in her ear, but it’s starting to 
bleed.” 

Drusilla waves her off. “Again, not my department. You’re up, 
Abernanny. So, Twelve has a lunatic, a computer, and a shrew.What are 
you?” 

“Bad news, apparently,” I say. “Else how’d I get a one in training?” 

Mags coaches me. “Yes, that’s good, highlight it immediately. Own 
It 

“Well, how did you?” asks Drusilla. 

“Earned it. The Gamemakers don’t like me. It probably started when I 
messed with a Peacekeeper during the reaping.” 

“You can’t say that!” Drusilla protests. “You’ll spoil the brilliant work 
I did covering up the riot!” 

“What riot? Woodbine ran and your people shot him.” 

“T know a riot when I see it! Never mind. That’s forbidden. It won’t 
win you any points with the audience anyway. They’I|l respond to a bad boy, 
not a rebel. You need to be naughty, not dangerous. For instance, last 
winter, one of the University students dyed all the fountains pink when 
there was a face cream shortage. So saucy! Everyone loved it!” 

I sense she’s actually trying to help, but .. . “Yeah, okay. But I’m 
going into the Hunger Games. I don’t think a face cream statement is going 
to cut it. Can I talk about spitting on the crowd?” 

“Absolutely not! What will people do with that?” 

“Well, if I can’t do the reaping, and I can’t do the spitting, what am I 
supposed to talk about?” 

Drusilla thinks a moment. “You must be mysterious. Allude to radical 
behavior without being specific. The ones who witnessed the opening 
ceremony have already been gossiping. Let the audience use its 
imagination.” 

“Naughty, not dangerous,” I repeat. 

“That’s it. Be a rascal. A charming, naughty rascal.” 


A rascal. That’s what Mamaw used to call a squirrel who’d sneak up 
on the porch to steal nuts she was shelling. Right from under her nose. Bold 
as a stump, but funny, too. “Well, I can try.” 

I don’t get a chance, though, because right then, Proserpina and Vitus 
burst into the apartment in a state of agitation. 

“It’s Magno. We went to his apartment to see the interview costumes 
so we can plan tonight’s makeup and hair —” begins Proserpina. 

“We’re allowed to do that. Required to, actually, on our syllabus. So 
it’s not like we’re brownnosing or anything —” interjects Vitus. 

“And the door to his apartment was wide open and he’s reeling 
around, he’s sick —” 

“He’s puking all over the place and talking like a crazy person 
and —” 

“We think the toad venom rumors might be true!” Proserpina claps 
her hands over her mouth as if she’s let some monster cat out of the bag. 

“Rumors?” rants Drusilla. “That man’s been licking toads since the 
war. I can’t believe that even he would risk it during the Games. Oh, what 
am I saying? Of course I can. If for no other reason than to end my career!” 

“Why would he lick toads?” asks Wyatt. 

“Because he’s a reptilian freak! And he’!l do anything to take me 
down.” 

“They say some kinds make you hallucinate or something. If they 
don’t kill you,” explains Vitus. “Some people do it for fun, but ugh, nasty.” 
“I’m going to issue a formal complaint with the Gamemakers!” 
Drusilla grabs her handbag and storms out, effectively ending my interview 

practice. 

“Do you two, perhaps, have any black clothing they could wear?” 
Wiress asks our prep team. 

“Us?” asks Vitus in disbelief. “We don’t wear black!” 

“It’s too depressing!” Proserpina bursts into tears, her magenta hair 
puffs bobbing wildly. “I need to call my sister.” She throws herself into a 
chair next to a table holding a burnt orange telephone, presses some 
buttons, and begins to wail into the receiver, “I’m going to fail! I’m going 
to fail!” 

Mags corrals the rest of us, including Vitus, into the kitchen to eat 
bowls of strawberry ice cream. 


After a few minutes, Proserpina joins us. “My sister says it isn’t our 
fault and to just do the best prep we can.” She slurps a big spoonful of ice 
cream, a last trickle of tears sliding down her flushed cheeks. “She says if 
they try to fail us, we can appeal to the University Board. My sister knows 
everybody on the University Board on account of how she used to be the 
student social planner and had to get everything approved.” 

“Her sister’s amazing,” says Vitus. 

“She is,” says Proserpina. “She was the president of the Capitol 
Cohorts Chapters. And she basically created the Spring Saturnalia her 
freshman year.” 

“Tt’s the best party of the year,” Vitus tells us. “So much better than 
that tired old fling.” 

“So much better,” echoes Proserpina. “Anyway, she thinks we’re 
going to be all right. Like she says, a positive attitude is ninety-seven 
percent of the battle.” 

It’s so astonishingly self-absorbed, in the face of our impending 
deaths, that I don’t even know how to respond. 

Maysilee, on the other hand, doesn’t miss a beat. “I’ll try to keep that 
in mind in the arena. More ice cream?” 

Mags catches my eye, her smile barely suppressed. 

Proserpina just holds out her bowl, oblivious. “I really think it will 
help you.” 

Maysilee, Lou Lou, and Wyatt’s prep teams arrive, and we take turns 
in the bathrooms and bedrooms being groomed. I try to negotiate a few 
extra minutes floating in the tub so I can work out how I might come across 
as a rascal, but all I can think about is stealing nuts. I have a bad feeling I’m 
just going to come off as annoying. 

Since they’re not trying to counteract the insecticides from the gym 
shower, the prep teams get better results with less effort, but they can’t 
compensate for our clothes. We were given a few changes of socks and 
underwear, but aside from that, we’ve been wearing our training outfits for 
three days straight. Lou Lou’s is as wrinkled as a raisin from her napping in 
it, Wyatt spilled mashed potatoes on his and scraping it off made it look 
worse, and I have a tear at my shoulder from when Panache attacked me. 
Even Maysilee, who looks the least crumpled, has a spattering of her 
homemade glue from working with tokens. On top of that, the cheap fabric 


really holds the smell of fear sweat that we’ve been pumping out, and that’s 
demoralizing even if the cameras won’t pick it up. 

I try to keep a positive attitude, since that’s ninety-seven percent of 
the battle, reminding myself that at least we have black clothing that fits us 
and we have our tokens. But the truth can’t be denied. We look like what we 
are: neglected, no-account, not-worth-a-professional-stylist long shots from 
District 12. Who’s going to sponsor that? 

On top of this, we have eight prep team members, half of them in 
tears, totally preoccupied with how this will affect their grades and, 
consequently, their future job prospects. Drusilla returns, pissed because she 
was unable to file a complaint until after the Games. As an afterthought, she 
went to see if she could rouse Magno, but he didn’t answer his door and she 
thinks he might be dead, which is the only thing that’s keeping her going. 
Except maybe that quart bottle of rum she’s knocking back in the kitchen. 
Wiress and Mags try to focus our minds on our interviews, but the general 
commotion makes that impossible. 

The noise drowns out the ping of the arriving elevator, so she seems to 
appear out of thin air. A young woman with lavender hair, a dress like a 
grape gumball, and green checked stockings. Four black hats stacked on her 
head, clothes bags draped over her arms, she wheels a cart of spiky shoes 
into the center of the living room and announces, “Who’s ready for a big, 
big, big day!” 


> 


“Effie!” cries Proserpina, flinging herself into the newcomer’s arms. 

Effie pats her back. “Well, I’m not going to let my baby sister — or 
her friends! — fail because some slackard didn’t do his job!” 

All the prep teams break into cheers or tears or both as they crowd 
around her. She accepts the adulation, but then gets serious. “Listen, 
everybody. There is something bigger than you and me happening here. As 
we all know, the Hunger Games are a sacred ceremony of remembrance for 
the Dark Days. A lot of people lost their lives to guarantee peace and 
prosperity for our nation. And this is our chance — no, it is our duty — to 
honor them!” 

Well, she’s swallowed the Capitol propaganda hook and took the line 
and sinker with it, but at least she’s brought us some decent footwear. She 
begins unzipping bags. “When you called, Prosie, at first, I didn’t know 
what to do, and then I thought, Great-Aunt Messalina!” 

“Great-Aunt Messalina!” crows Proserpina. “She never throws 
anything out!” 

“A lot of it’s really old, but fortunately all the war-era styles are back 
in fashion,” explains Effie. She holds up a black lace dress with matching 
gloves. “And there’s loads of black because there were so many funerals.” 


“You — are — brilliant — Effie — Trinket!” sputters Vitus. 

“T confess to having a moment,” says Effie. “Don’t worry, boys, 
Great-Uncle Silius was no slouch in the threads department either.” 

He certainly wasn’t, and even better, he seemed to be roughly the 
same size as Wyatt and me, with a few adjustments. We find a tuxedo for 
Wyatt and a three-piece suit with a rakish vest embroidered with cocktail 
glasses for me. Just the thing for a rascal. Or a bootlegger. By the time I’ve 
added a roomy pair of patent leather shoes and eight-ball cuff links on my 
white silk shirt, I look slick as a whistle. 

“Clothes make the man,” says Effie with satisfaction, giving me an 
approving pat on the shoulder. At least the Trinkets aren’t mean, just 
clueless, which makes for a big improvement over Drusilla and Magno. The 
girls look sensational, too, with Lou Lou in the black lace dress, expertly 
pinned up to fit her, and Maysilee in an off-the-shoulder velvet gown, a boa, 
and the black lace gloves. I know we’re being prettied up for slaughter, but 
at least we might have some sponsors now. 

“Who could believe they’re from District Twelve? It was really nice 
of your great-aunt to let you borrow everything,” says Vitus. 

“Well, she owes us after all the disgrace she brought to the name of 
Trinket. We’ ll be recovering from that for years,” Effie says, crinkling her 
brow. “If even only half the stories are true...” 

Vitus puts a consoling arm around her and says, “You don’t pick your 
ancestors.” Then his voice drops to a shamed whisper. “My grandfather was 
a rebel sympathizer.” 

“You win,” concedes Effie. “But look at you now!” 

When Drusilla swings out of the kitchen, she does a double take at our 
outfits. “What happened here?” 

“My sister!” beams Proserpina, nudging Effie forward. 

“Oh, it was a privilege to dress them for Panem,” says Effie modestly. 

Drusilla’s face twists through a range of expressions — confusion, 
relief, admiration, with bitterness ultimately winning. “These cannot be 
credited to Magno. You.” She grabs Effie by the arm. “You’re coming with 
us, and I’m telling everyone you’re responsible.” 

“But — I don’t even have a backstage pass,” objects Effie. 

“That, at least, I can remedy.” Drusilla waves us toward the door. 
“Come on, you lot, let’s try to make it to at least one event on time.” 


Proserpina shoves a makeup box into Effie’s hands. “Touch-ups!” 

“I'm on it,” promises Effie. “For everybody!” She gives Lou Lou, 
who’s baring her teeth, a worried look. “Maybe a lighter shade of lipstick 
for you.” 

“And tone down the blush,” says Maysilee. 

“Exactly,” agrees Effie. For a moment, they’re just two girls on a 
mission to beautify the world. Effie holds up a compact for her opinion. 
“I'm thinking maybe a peach?” 

“Much better.” 

“Hold on.” Effie reaches over and removes a broken feather from 
Maysilee’s boa. “There. You’re perfect.” 

“Is my mascara okay?” 

“Yes, but I can see it’d be a problem with those long lashes of yours.” 
Effie digs in the makeup box and hands her a little pad. “Take this in case it 
smudges.” 

Drusilla starts to haul Effie to the elevator, sending the makeup box to 
the floor. It cracks open and tubes of color roll across the burnt-orange 
carpet. I lean over and collect them, returning it all to Effie, who looks 
slightly surprised. 

“Thank you, Haymitch,” she says. “That was very considerate, 
especially given your circumstances.” 

“Well, thank you for bringing us some dress-up clothes.” 

“You deserve to look beautiful tonight,” Effie replies. “And I think 
you’re all being very brave.” 

We don’t have much choice, but it’s nice to have someone recognize 
it. 

In the van, inspired by Great-Uncle Silius’s taste in fashion, I decide 
to double down on the bootlegger angle. I imagine brewing up illegal booze 
falls into the category of what the Capitol would consider naughty, not 
dangerous. Judging by the opening ceremony crowd, most of these folks 
drink like fish, so there should be a fair amount of sympathy for a kid who 
goes outside the law to keep his district pickled. Anyway, it’s the best 
rascally angle I can come up with, and it’s founded in truth. I don’t want to 
get Hattie in any trouble, though, so I decide to pretend it’s something I do 
on my own. 


I’m starting to get antsy about the breaking-the-arena plan, given that 
I still don’t know the timeline or how the explosives are being smuggled in. 
Mags and Wiress were allowed to accompany Drusilla, so Beetee should be 
with his tributes tonight, too. 

The interviews are televised from an auditorium that seats a couple 
thousand people. Drusilla tells us there won’t be a delay, since there’s no 
potential for an uprising in the Capitol audience, so don’t mess up and 
expect her to cover for us. That’s rich. After she gets the official lineup, she 
slips off to have a word with Caesar Flickerman, so he can know how to 
approach our interviews. As she walks away, she mutters, “Shrew, 
calculator, lunatic, rascal.” 

We’re taken to a waiting room backstage called the greenroom, 
although it’s painted white. It’s already crowded with mentors, escorts, and 
stylists hovering around their tributes, who are all polished up and dressed 
in chic evening wear in their districts’ signature color. Even District 1, who 
wore ball gowns and suits to the parade, have upped their game, and their 
snot-green ensembles with flowing trains and plumed coattails require three 
times the space of any other district. 

Effie eyes them critically and whispers, “Thank goodness your color 
is black! Can you imagine trying to outfit everyone in peridot? That was a 
flash in the pan.” 

Honestly, 12 comes off a lot classier and somehow potentially 
deadlier. Maybe I’m projecting. My jacket and vest have hidden 
compartments and my belt some extra loops that Effie told me were for 
decorative weapons. Hm, decorative. And Effie quickly ruled out the first 
shirt I tried on because of something that looked suspiciously like a 
bloodstain that hadn’t come out in the wash. I can’t help wondering if what 
Great-Aunt Messalina and her husband did to disgrace the family was 
connected to some lifeless bodies. Makes me feel a little more dangerous, 
slipping into their skins tonight. 

Beetee catches my eye from a cluster of electric blue and gives a 
quick nod toward the buffet. Drusilla’s busy making sure everybody knows 
Effie did our clothes, so I’m able to plead thirst and make a beeline for the 
punch bowl. The table’s spread with delicacies, like candy high-heeled 
shoes and caviar in seashells and miniature pigs made of ham salad. I don’t 


recognize half the food, but I follow a lady’s example and smear a dollop of 
goat cheese on a square of peanut brittle. Surprisingly good. 

I’m ladling myself some punch when Beetee sidles up beside me. He 
picks up a large pair of silver tweezers and begins to meticulously choose 
tiny vegetables from an arrangement shaped like a bunch of flowers. It’s 
ridiculous. 

“Those work better than your fingers?” I ask. 

“Trying not to draw attention to myself,” he says quietly. 

I glance around and see several Peacekeepers have their eyes on us. A 
couple begin to close in when there’s a commotion at the door. Magno Stift 
lurches into the room, holding a cage of reptiles above his head and 
shouting, “The party animals are here!” 

As the Peacekeepers redirect toward my stylist, Beetee plucks off a 
minuscule radish and speaks rapidly under his breath. “Head north. Ampert 
will do the same after he has the explosive. Do your best to locate a mutt 
portal by tracking returning mutts after an attack. After you and Ampert 
meet up, take one to access Sub-A, where the tank is located. We’ve 
replaced the black cord in Ampert’s token with fuse, the blasting cap’s 
hidden in the weave.” 

I take a deep pull on my punch, checking out Ampert’s token over the 
rim of the cup. It’s indistinguishable from the one Maysilee made, with no 
sign of the blasting cap in the braided cord. Beetee doesn’t say where it 
came from, but the rebels must have someone on the inside who smuggled 
it through security and swapped it for the original. 

“All four of District Nine’s sunflowers are now composed of 
explosive,” he adds. 

“But their sunflowers are hard. Kerna’s shattered on the floor.” 

“Yes. These are coated with a shellac. Wet them with water and rub 
them between your palms. The friction will help dissolve the shellac and 
leave the explosive malleable.” 

“Does Nine know the plan?” I ask. 

“They do not. Ampert will scavenge one from their persons.” From a 
dead body, he means. Probably at the bloodbath. “Or more if he can get 
them. It never hurts to have a spare. And if Ampert fails to show” — 
Beetee’s voice breaks slightly on this last bit. We both know why Ampert 


might not be able to reach me. For a moment, he examines a pea-sized 
tomato under his glasses — “we’ve also replaced the —” 

A flutter of chiffon at my elbow alerts me to the arrival of all four 
District 6 doves, who shimmer in their iridescent gray finery. Beetee moves 
down to a meatball pyramid without further clarifications, a good-bye, or a 
good luck. 

Wellie whispers, “Ampert says, when we get to the arena, we’re 
supposed to band together as soon as possible.” 

Is that by design? Probably. If Ampert bands with the others, he’ll 
have access to the tributes from 9 when they die. Meanwhile, I have my 
own mission, which does not involve protecting this flock. 

“That sounds like a good plan,” I agree. 

“He says maybe some of you bigger tributes can grab weapons first,” 
Wellie tells me. 

“T’ll give it a shot.” But I will not be able to look after them in the 
arena — I will have to devote my abilities to blowing up the tank or die 
trying. “Listen, I’m going to be a real jerk in my interview. It’s something 
my team worked up, but I will never hurt you, okay? Or any of the 
Newcomers. That’s a promise.” 

“We know that,” says Wellie, eyes full of trust. 

Too much trust. I need to distance myself from them for the good of 
everybody. 

“There’s another thing, though,” I say. “You saw my score, that I only 
got a one. The Gamemakers may be targeting me. It’s dangerous for any of 
you to be around me. So I’m thinking of going it alone.” 

Wellie’s face falls. “But they’re targeting all of us. We need you.” 

“You don’t if I’m drawing packs of mutts or being chased into the 
Careers. You don’t. And you all have to understand that. Tell the others, 
okay?” 

Across the room, a glassy-eyed Magno has backed into a comer but 
managed to clear some space by freeing a six-foot snake from the cage and 
waving it around. “Where are my tributes? I need to dress them!” 

People are shrieking, and the Peacekeepers form a huddle to confer 
over their plan to subdue him. Drusilla looks overjoyed, shouting, “Take 
him down! Take him down!” 


But before the Peacekeepers, tasers pulled, can do the job, Lou Lou 
steps up, hands extended for the snake, and says, “Mine.” 

Magno grins, bypasses her hands, drapes the snake around her 
shoulders, then loops the tail end around her neck. “You wear her like this.” 

Lou Lou entwines her arm with the snake’s neck so its head rests on 
the back of her hand and holds it up. Magno leans over and kisses the snake 
on the mouth. It’s the very picture of madness, this damaged little girl and 
our debauched, drugged stylist. Wyatt goes to collect her, putting an arm 
around her to guide her back to the District 12 crew. The snake seems to 
have given Lou Lou a sense of power, and she walks by tributes three times 
her size, brandishing the snake and hissing. 

I rejoin my district just as the television at the end of the green room 
comes to life. On-screen, an invisible hand writes a big curlicue 50 over a 
shot of the auditorium stage as a booming voice announces, “Ladies and 
Gentlemen, welcome to the Fiftieth Hunger Games Night of Interviews. 
And here’s everybody’s favorite host, Caesar Flickerman!” 

Caesar descends from the ceiling perched on a crescent moon, stars 
shooting behind him. He’s a young guy wearing a suit so dark blue it’s 
almost black, embedded with tiny light bulbs that make it twinkle. The suit 
never changes, but every year he dyes his hair a different color, tonight a 
deep pine-forest green, and paints his eyelids and lips the same color. 
Maybe you could make an argument for the hair and eyes, but green lips 
suggest a man in the process of decomposition. He just looks ghoulish. The 
gleam of his overly white teeth as he flashes the audience a knowing smile 
only reminds you that he’s got a skull under all that glop. As he deftly 
dismounts the moon, he opens his arms and says, “Hello, Panem! Shall we 
get this party started?” The audience roars in approval. 

Here in the green room, a young Gamemaker lines up Districts 1 and 
2, reading out their order of appearance. They file out the door after her to 
wait in the wings. 

On-screen, Caesar launches into a brief retrospective of the other 
forty-nine Games, starting with the no-frills version of the early years 
directly after the war, when the tributes were thrown into an old, bombed- 
out sports arena with weapons and little else. I watch carefully when he 
talks about the Tenth Games being a turning point, as that was the year 


District 12 had a victor, but they only feature the introduction of betting, the 
sponsors, and the rickety drones that dropped food and water to the tributes. 
From this point on, the Games evolved from pure punishment to 
unapologetic entertainment. The original sports venue was abandoned as 
the Gamemakers began to use existing settings in the wild or bombed-out 

towns and such, introducing an assortment of mutts and a variety of 
weapons. 

The Twenty-fifth Games, the first Quarter Quell, proved particularly 
heinous, as the districts were forced to choose their own tributes rather than 
relying on the reaping. Another Flickerman named Lucky hosted with 
commentary from a relic of a woman named Gaul, who was credited with 
coining the phrase “May the odds be EVER in your favor” for the 
anniversary. That phrase has caught on as a way to wish someone good 
luck, but if you think about it, it’s a sadistic thing to say to a tribute, given 
that survival’s an impossibility for twenty-three of the twenty-four kids. 

For this first Quell, the Gamemakers had the tributes kick off the 
Capitol portion by riding chariots through the streets in district-flavored 
costumes. Rather than scout a location for the Games, they built an arena 
for a single use. Also, the Cornucopia made its first appearance, loaded with 
weapons and supplies, triggering a heated bloodbath when the opening 
gong sounded. 

For the last twenty-four years, they’ve unveiled a brand-new arena 
each year based on a different environment or theme, from a desert to a 
frigid landscape to Wiress’s reflective puzzle, which they called the Nest of 
Mirrors. Caesar teases the audience about the second Quarter Quell arena. 
He’s heard a rumor it puts all the previous arenas to shame. Can they 
imagine it? No, they can’t. Will it be fabulous? Yes, it will. 

My stomach feels sick and I’m glad I don’t have to go first. I’m also 
glad District 1 does. When Caesar introduces Silka, she strides onstage 
dragging fifteen feet of a snot-green train behind her. 

“Ugh. Just like a snail,” comments Maysilee loudly, getting a round of 
nervous laughter in the green room. What everybody’s really thinking is 
about how Silka’s over six feet tall without the heels and can throw an ax 
into a dummy’s heart at fifteen feet. And that is not something you can 
laugh off. 


Since there are so many of us this year, we’re limited to two-minute 
interviews and after every four districts, there will be some sort of break 
that Caesar calls a “palate cleanser.” 

Silka wastes no time in bragging about her size, her strength, her ax- 
handling, and her scoring a ten. She doesn’t even bother mentioning her 
alliance with the Careers, and when Caesar brings them up, she just says, 
“Sure, it helps to have someone to clear the field.” 

Panache swaggers onstage next, stopping three different times to pose 
and flex his muscles for the audience. 

“Panache from District One!” Caesar bellows. Then asks him, “So, 
Panache, in addition to your obvious assets, why should our audience back 
you?” 

“Because I’m the biggest, the beefiest, and the best!” Panache hits 
another pose. 

“My word, it sounds like we should barbeque you!” quips Caesar. 

“That’s right. I’m all meat, little man,” says Panache, giving Caesar a 
patronizing pat on the head. 

He’s just so easy to loathe. You can see the cut landing with Caesar, 
but he lives for this stuff. “Even your brain?” he asks in wonder. 

The audience titters. Confusion crosses Panache’s face, then anger at 
the teasing. “Not my brain! Obviously, it’s ... gray stuff.” 

Caesar nods, straight-faced, as if digesting this, while the audience 
cracks up. Panache begins to burn and I remember the train window, which 
was only an innocent bystander. For a minute I think he might destroy 
Caesar, but he catches himself and just shouts at the audience, “What does it 
matter?” 

“Matter?” Caesar sputters. “I think brain matter . . . matters quite a 
bit!” 

The Capitol citizens lose it and so do I, until I remember the joke’s 
not just on Panache. It’s on all of us stupid, clawed district piglets. Animals 
for their entertainment. Expendable for their pleasure. Too dumb to deserve 
to live. 

Caesar settles the audience and tries to get back to the interview. “All 
in good fun, Panache, all in good fun. Personally, I failed biology. So tell us, 
what’s your weapon of choice?” 

“My fists,” says Panache, holding one right up to Caesar’s nose. 


Caesar takes a delicate step back, turns his head to the audience, and 
stage-whispers, “Also meaty.” 

It’s all over then for Panache. They show shots of people overcome 
with hilarity, tears streaming down their cheeks, gasping for breath. Caesar 
pretends he’s trying to continue his questions, then jumps back every time 
Panache looks at him, mugging in terror for the cameras. I can’t stand 
Panache, but it’s unfair. A bell signals his time’s up, and he has no choice 
but to leave the stage, steaming and humiliated. 

The rest of the tributes from Districts 1 and 2 seem to realize they’re 
in danger of being classified as stupid beasts, too, so they make an effort to 
play up their prowess with weapons and the benefits of the Career pack. But 
Panache has done some damage, and any attempt to boast about muscle 
comes with a comic side-eye from Caesar that tickles the audience. I 
remember my pa Saying, if you can get people to laugh at someone, it 
makes them look weak. He meant the heavies in the Capitol, but it seems to 
be true here as well. 

Up until this point, no mention has been made of the Newcomers, but 
Dio kicks off the District 3 interviews with news of our alliance, generously 
laying out the entire team by name, every one of us, and touting our skills. 
Ampert follows with his whole theory of previous tributes being 
brainwashed, the disproportionate number of Career wins, and how it will 
only take numbers to bring a different result. He doesn’t even mention his 
own attributes, but he doesn’t need to, because he’s clearly so whip-smart 
that Caesar remarks on it with approval. In fact, all of District 3 comes off 
as brainy, collaborative, and composed, in high contrast to the Careers, and 
they get plenty of applause. 

District 4 came prepared to showcase their trident and netting skills, 
not to strategize about the Newcomers. They fumble when confronted with 
Caesar’s line of questioning. “Those kids seem pretty bright, don’t you 
think?” “What else do you think they have up their sleeves?” “What about 
their numbers?” “What plans have the Careers discussed to counter the 
Newcomers?” 

By the first palate cleanser, the Capitol’s buzzing about the 
Newcomers. While the audience is treated to highlights of fashion through 
the Games, District 5 calls an emergency meeting in the green room. As the 
sole remaining Career district, this will be their alliance’s last chance to 


present their case against the Newcomers. The rest of the evening will 
belong to us. 

District 9, despite their commitment to the Newcomers, tends to 
remain exclusive. Shy, maybe, or just not very social. I go over to say hey, 
which also gives me an opportunity to covertly examine their sunflower 
tokens. I see the replicas have been approached just as seriously as 
Ampert’s token. The little cracks in Kerna’s flower look so convincing I 
worry they haven’t actually replaced it. I don’t want to go to the trouble of 
getting to that tank only to be caught trying to detonate a lump of salt flour 
dough. But either I trust Beetee or I don’t. He’s certainly going out on a 
limb trusting me. 

After the break, District 5 does their best to highlight our 
shortcomings. They focus on our size and dearth of training, but they lack a 
cohesive plan to eliminate us, probably because the smugness of Careers 
made this seem unnecessary, and they end up contradicting each other. Will 
they stay in one pack or break up? Will they share food and water? Who is 
the leader of the Careers and will they follow them? Basic questions clearly 
never discussed. And when they’re not sure of the answers, the temptation 
to promote themselves wins out. 

I’m a little worried since my doves are next, swimming in chiffon 
ruffles, but once Wellie steps up to Caesar’s mic, it’s pure Newcomers for 
the rest of the night. Her diminutive size becomes secondary as she 
assuredly answers the same questions that tripped up District 5 without 
hesitation: 

“We’ll always be one pack, as you call it. But we’ll divide up as 
necessary to defeat the Careers.” 

“Oh, we’re going to share our provisions. It just makes sense.” 

“We don’t have one leader, as such. The Newcomers are more 
committed to the alliance itself, which is better, you know, because we will 
lose kids. But Ampert came up with the idea and brought us all together, 
and we’ ve all sworn to follow his plan and protect one another to the end.” 

I don’t know, maybe Ampert left me out of the loop when it came to 
our interview strategy because he knew I’d be pre-occupied with sabotage, 
but the Newcomers have their ducks in a row. Nobody talks too much about 
themselves, they stress the power of the group and the advantages the 
Newcomers will exploit in the arena. How small size can be a plus for 


climbing trees or hiding or needing less food, how being able to trust your 
teammates means you’ll get better sleep — so the Careers won’t be 
catching any zzz’s — and how brain power, which we have in spades, 
comes in handy for everything from strategy to building things to catching 
food. In the brief moments when they pitch their personal skills, it’s about 
how they’ Il use them to help one another. 

Maybe we’ll lose, but we’re sure making a lot of people proud back 
home. 

Even with the interruption of the second palate cleanser, a terrifying 
review of the deadliest mutts in Games history, the Newcomers keep 
building our case, and before you know it, District 12 is up. 

As admirable as the Newcomers may be, I think we’ve begun to wear 
on Caesar. Selflessness and quiet resolve don’t really make for rollicking 
entertainment. So, after a quick confirmation of our Newcomer 
commitment, he’s more than ready to go with District 12’s sauce. 

Caesar eggs on Maysilee, who garners a lot of laughs when she 
machine-guns the midsection of the front row for their poor taste. To a man 
dressed in a suit made of hundred-dollar bills, she says, “That’s sweet. You 
wore all your friends tonight.” To a lady with surgically implanted cat ears. 
“And is that purse for your flea powder?” 

Wyatt spouts off complicated odds that a Gamemaker with a 
calculator confirms. When he correctly figures the amount of sponsor 
dollars it would take to send a tribute a stuffed pheasant two weeks into the 
Games, given rising inflation of thirty-eight percent a day, he genuinely 
blows Caesar away. “I wasn’t so hot in arithmetic either!” he exclaims. “I 
don’t know if the odds are in your favor in the arena, Wyatt, but if you win, 
you and me are heading to the casino!” 

Lou Lou’s a sensation, wielding her snake, baring her teeth at the 
audience. As usual, she states her name and district, but then resorts to 
hissing at Caesar when he asks a question. When the audience snickers, she 
crouches down and holds out the snake, causing some people to jokingly 
recoil, and the bolder ones to stroke its sinewy body. She’s winning them 
over, until, for the first time this evening, perhaps inspired by her ferocity, 
Caesar asks, “Now, Louella, what will the Newcomers do if they kill off all 
the Careers? What will happen with you kids then?” 


As if on cue, the snake hisses in a woman’s jewel-studded face and 
Lou Lou growls, “You’|! murder us. You’! murder us.” 

If the sight of this strange little girl wrapped in a snake amused them, 
her attack on the Capitol does not. Gasps and sounds of disapproval rise 
from the audience, but she persists. 

“You’ ll murder us! You’! murder us!” Her pitch gets higher and 
higher and the effect is chilling. “You’ll murder us!” 

The facade of fun vanishes. She begins to crawl along the edge of the 
stage, singling out front-row ticket holders and shouting, “You! ... You! .. 
s Youlou.2 YOU! s..07 

Even Caesar’s famous cool is blown as he dances after her, trying to 
recapture the magic. “Okay, Louella ... Louella! It’s unfortunate, but the 
Games can only have one winner. Louella! She’s certainly determined! A 
little help here, please!” 

Mid-accusation, Lou Lou falls silent. Her eyes roll upward and she 
collapses to the floorboards. 

“She’s fainted from exertion, and not a moment too soon!” exclaims 
Caesar. I’m certain the Gamemakers had a hand in it, probably drugging her 
through her pump. They let Wyatt return to carry her offstage as Caesar 
immediately segues into introducing me. “And now our final tribute of the 
evening, Haymitch Abemathy from District Twelve!” 

I take my time crossing the stage, because I don’t think a guy with 
cocktail glasses on his vest would hurry. Caesar, in recovery mode, jumps 
right in. “So, Haymitch, what do you think of the Games having one 
hundred percent more competitors than usual?” 

This is the first time they will hear me speak, and I want to make a 
lasting impression. But suddenly I’m not thinking of Great-Uncle Silius — 
I’m thinking of Woodbine Chance, who should have been standing here in 
my place. He was always walking a line of trouble, but people liked him. 
Especially the girls. Too young to be considered a real danger yet, but 
certainly a rascal. 

I give a shrug and let a little of that Chance attitude slip in. “I don’t 
see that it makes much difference. They’lI still be one hundred percent as 
stupid as usual, so I figure the odds will be roughly the same.” 

An appreciative chuckle runs through the audience. 

I give them half a smile. “I’m speaking of the Careers, of course.” 


“Well, it isn’t common knowledge, but I heard you’ve had some run- 
ins with one of the Careers. Panache maybe?” Caesar asks. 

I come back with, “Heard you did, too.” Caesar laughs along with the 
audience. “Yeah, I’m not on good terms with any of the Careers. But the 
Newcomers are plenty smart and one hundred percent safe with me.” 

“Well, judging by your Gamemakers’ score, everybody’s safe with 
you,” observes Caesar, drawing an ooh from the audience. “I hear you got a 
one in training?” 

“Not so easy!” I tell him. “I consider that one a badge of honor. I 
mean, I’ve got thirty-one sworn allies, this rock-hard body, and a brain five 
times smarter than any Career’s. Know what else I’ve got? Guts. Because 
clearly ... I’m not afraid to piss off the Gamemakers!” 

I open my arms to the audience and pace along the front of the stage 
while they hoot in support. “Shoot, a ten? A ten? Anybody can get a ten! 
You have to be a special kind of trouble to get a one, am I right?” Cheers of 
affirmation. “I can tell some of you know just what I mean.” I point out a 
man in the second row who wears a glass cube of live bees on his head. 
“This gentleman right here, for instance.” He nods vigorously. “And you, 
darling?” I lean over the lady with the cat ears. She covers her face in 
gleeful embarrassment. “Sure, you been there.” 

“So let’s make a list of everyone you’ve pissed off,” says Caesar. 
“There’s Panache... and the other Careers . . . and the Game-makers. 
That’s just in the few days you’ve been in the Capitol. Anybody back 
home?” 

“Well, there’s the Peacekeepers.” The audience quiets a bit. “They can 
get out of sorts if I don’t deliver their white liquor on time.” Shocked 
laughter. 

“‘Their white liquor?’ Just exactly what do you do after school, 
Haymitch?” 

I’m careful to keep this as removed from Hattie’s still as I can. “Well, 
let’s just call it my science homework. Turns out, I can make hooch out of 
just about anything, Caesar. District Twelve can’t brag about much, but 
we’ve got the finest shine in Panem. And I’m pretty sure the base 
commander will back me up on that!” 

“But... isn’t that illegal?” 


“Is it? For real?” I turn to a moustachioed man holding an oversized 
brandy snifter. “You’d think the commander might’ve mentioned that.” 

The bell rings and Caesar gives me a slap on the back. “This one’s a 
real rascal, ladies and gentlemen! Haymitch Abernathy from District 
Twelve! May the odds be EVER in his favor!” 

Half the audience gets to their feet to applaud me off. I wink at the 
lady with the cat ears, much to her delight, and exit the stage. I’m pretty 
sure Drusilla planted the label rascal in Caesar’s head, but even so, I feel 
I’ve earned it. 

Backstage, Mags and Wiress await me. Mags gives me a hug, Wiress 
a quick nod, saying only, “You’ve got some sponsors.” 

I can hear Caesar wrapping things up for the evening as we rejoin the 
rest of the team and hurry down the halls to our exit. I think we must be 
headed back to the apartment, but when we reach our van, Plutarch’s 
waiting. 

He addresses Drusilla. “Great job! You know, these kids never got a 
proper photo shoot. What say we swing by my place and get some high- 
quality pictures, maybe even a little footage? Be nice to have for cameos if 
they hang in there. And it might seem like you and I weren’t doing our jobs 
without it.” 

Drusilla considers this. “Just so long as Magno Stift is never 
mentioned.” 

“Magno who?” says Plutarch, and Drusilla flounces off to her private 
Car. 

Under her breath, Effie says, “Some marriages should never have 
happened.” 

“Drusilla and Magno were married?” I ask in disbelief. 

“Still are, technically,” says Plutarch. “Thirty years and counting! She 
Says it’s a tax thing, but who really knows? Shall we go?” 

Mags and Wiress weren’t invited, but the rest of us land in Plutarch’s 
library with Trajan Heavensbee watching over us. Everybody almost looks 
at home in the Trinkets’ wardrobe. Effie touches up our makeup and even 
adds a flower to my lapel from an arrangement in a replica of the golden 
staircase. 

Plutarch suggests he take us off one at a time to the conservatory to 
practice for the video footage. “District Twelve’s gone from nobodies to a 


hot commodity among the more daring sponsors,” he says brightly. “That’s 
a breakthrough. But let’s try and get everybody to jump on that 
bandwagon.” I go with him first, while Drusilla oversees Maysilee’s photo 
shoot and Wyatt keeps an eye on Lou Lou, who stares in fascination at a 
candelabra while she cuddles her snake. 

We left the Peacekeepers at the entrance, since Plutarch said his 
private security team would be sufficient, so we’re as unguarded as on my 
earlier visit to the mansion. 

Plutarch seems in a hurry, and I’m practically jogging to keep up with 
him. “I was thinking, like you said, about people who think we’re too risky, 
and | —” 

He cuts me off. “Listen, Haymitch, I know you don’t like me, and you 
certainly don’t trust me, but you should know that, despite appearances, a 
desire for freedom is not limited to the districts. And your misfortune does 
not give you the right to assume so. I hope after tonight you’!l consider 
this.” 

I have no idea what he’s talking about. “What?” 

The warm air of the conservatory hits my face. He crosses over to the 
swan telephone, lifts the receiver, and says, “Ready on this end.” He listens 
for a moment more, then hands it to me. “Someone wants to talk to you.” 
Then he walks a discreet distance away. 

Oh. Now I get it. President Snow. I overdid it in the interview and I’m 
about to hear about my gory demise. And Plutarch, who likes to think of 
himself as a decent guy, is upset about throwing me to the wolves again. 
Figures. With trepidation, I lift the receiver to my ear, brace myself, and 
manage to get out a “Yeah?” 

“Haymitch? Is that really you?” The breathless voice, rough with 
recent tears, cuts right through to my heart. 

Lenore Dove. 


> 


I grip the phone, eyes shut tight. I am back in the mountains. Arms 
wrapped around her, the scent of honeysuckle in her hair. She’d been crying 
then, too. Not at anything I did, but because they’d hung a man that 
morning and made the rest of us watch. But there we were, high in the hills, 
with not one but two rainbows arching across the sky. Sometimes she cries 
because things are so beautiful and we keep messing them up. Because the 
world doesn’t have to be so terrifying. That’s on people, not the world. 

“Haymitch?” 

“Yeah, it’s me. I’m here. Where are you calling from?” 

“I'm on the Peacekeepers’ base. They arrested me.” 

This jolts me back to the conservatory. It’s not honeysuckle I’m 
smelling, but the faint mix of roses and decaying meat drifting off the 
nepenthes. My arms can’t protect her, only embrace the empty air. 
“Arrested you? When? What for?” Is this because I just joked about the 
Peacekeepers buying white liquor? Are they taking out my waywardness on 
her? 

“Last night. For playing music. I guess I went a little crazy when they 
gave you that one in training. I took my tune box over to the Justice 
Building. They hadn’t pulled the stage down yet, and I did a few songs.” 


She doesn’t have to tell me which songs. “The Goose and the 
Common.” “The Capitol Store.” “The Hanging Tree.” All the ones she’s 
forbidden to play in public. Clerk Carmine and Tam Amber must be going 
nuts right now. And I share their exasperation and fear. “Oh, Lenore 
Dove... are you all right? Did they hurt you?” 

“No. Just hauled me in. Less about what I played, more about how it 
drew people. Everybody’s real upset this year, so many kids. They needed a 
place to be together, to raise their voices. Sometimes the hurt’s too bad to 
bear alone.” 

So it wasn’t just her, playing her heart out in front of the Justice 
Building. A crowd had gathered. Sung the forbidden songs. “Did they say 
the charges?” 

“Disrupting the peace or something. And you know, ‘No Peace, No 
Anything.’” 

My mind races. Disrupting the peace isn’t sedition. They can lay that 
on you for getting drunk and busting up a few bottles, which happens all the 
time in 12. It’s not like she’s part of some big conspiracy, so, hopefully, they 
won’t use methods to force her to talk. Just view her as an emotional 
sixteen-year-old whose boyfriend got reaped. Maybe take away her tune 
box for a while or keep her locked up until after the Hunger Games when 
things have died down. I hope they don’t put her in the stocks on the square, 
which is what they threatened to do when she was twelve. But that was four 
years ago, and the Covey have some Peacekeepers among their fans, so that 
could work in her favor. A lot will depend on how rowdy the audience got 
and how the base commander views it. I sure didn’t do her any favors by 
bragging about selling him white liquor tonight. Now he may feel obliged 
to come down harder on her. 

“Was there fighting? Did anything get broke?” I ask. 

“Oh, who cares? They’re letting me out tomorrow morning, but 
you’re going into the arena.” Relief surges through me. They’re letting her 
out. Just a slap on the wrist. “None of my stuff matters a whit,” she 
continues. “And I sure don’t want to spend our last moments talking about 
what’s broken. Except my heart . . . how about that?” 

She’s mad and probably near tears again. “Oh, Lenore Dove... I’m 
so sorry I messed everything up.” And I did, too. The Peacekeepers 


wouldn’t have targeted her just for trying to help Woodbine’s ma. At least, 
not as a rule. 

“You? It’s entirely my fault you’re there! And I know I’m why you 
got that score. I as good as killed you, and that’s not something I can live 
with.” 

And so she’s doing what she can to get herself killed? Now I’m mad. 
“That’s just a lie you’ve got to stop telling yourself! If I’d kept my head, 
you might’ve gotten a few bruises, but we’d both still be in Twelve.” 

“No, darling, that’s not how it went down at all. I overstepped, just 
like my uncles always warn me about. I lost my temper and started 
hollering and now you’re — oh, Haymitch. . . I don’t want to be on this 
earth without you.” 

“So now you’re trying to get them to hang you? You do, and I swear 
Pll — Pll —” Pll what? [ll be dead and gone is what, in no position to do 
anything. But I feel so helpless now, I’ve got to try whatever I can to 
change her mind. I have no idea what happens when we die, but Lenore 
Dove believes nothing ever dies, and we just move from one world to the 
next like the Covey did from town to town. “Like in one of your songs, my 
ghost will hunt down your ghost and never give it a moment’s rest.” 

“Promise?” She sounds a little more hopeful. “Because if I could 
count on that, I think I could bear it. But what I can’t bear is . . . what if 
we’re never together again?” 

“We will be together always,” I say with conviction. “I don’t know 
how, and I don’t know where, I don’t know anything, but I feel that in my 
heart. You and me, we will find each other, as many times as it takes.” 

“You think?” 

“T do. But not if you do something stupid like getting yourself killed 
on purpose. I feel like that could throw the whole thing out of whack. You 
stay alive, play your songs, love your people, live the best life you can. And 
I'll be there in the Meadow waiting for you. It’s a promise. Okay?” 

“Okay,” she whispers. “I?ll try. That’s my promise back.” 

Plutarch waves his hand to get my attention, taps his watch. Time has 
run out. 

“Lenore Dove, I love you like all-fire. That’s for always.” 

“T love you like all-fire, too. You and no one else. Just like my geese, I 
mate for life. And then some. Forever.” 


I need to say, no, don’t spend your life grieving me, love whoever you 
want. Only I just can’t bear the thought of it at the moment. Her kissing 
someone else. But I’m trying to be noble, to pull myself up to say those 
words, when the line goes dead without warning. 

“Lenore Dove? Lenore Dove?” 

She’s gone. Truly for good, this time. But she is safe. I set the swan 
head back in the cradle like I am laying down a sleeping child, slow and 
gentle-like. Good-bye, my love. 

Only now do I wonder how this call has occurred. I’ve never even 
heard of a tribute getting to talk to someone back home from the Capitol. I 
meet Plutarch’s eyes. “You set that call up?” 

He shrugs. “I have an old friend in Twelve.” 

“Why would you do that for me?” I say, genuinely perplexed. “I bet it 
could get you in real trouble.” 

“Yes, you’re right. If it gets discovered, my next meal will probably 
be a large platter of poisoned oysters. But I risked it because I need you to 
trust me, Haymitch. More importantly, I need you to trust the information 
I’m about to give you.” 

I’m completely lost. “What information?” 

“About how to break the arena.” 

This pulls me up short. Plutarch? Plutarch knows about the arena 
plot? He’s right. I don’t trust him, or the whole forsaken plan now. Were 
Beetee and I being recorded somehow during the blackout, even if the 
Cameras were out? It would be easy enough to bug the place. Were there 
microphones in the vegetable bouquet tonight? If that’s the case, Plutarch 
could be working for the Capitol, trying to get more info out of me and kill 
anyone involved. He set up the call with Lenore Dove so I would trust him, 
so I would confide in him. 

“T have no idea what you’re talking about,” I say. 

“Fine. That’s smart. Don’t trust me. Only hear what I have to say and, 
when you’re in the arena, see if it comes in handy.” 

I lift my hands in bewilderment. “You sure you got the right guy?” 

“Okay, just listen. I don’t have any real security clearance, but my 
cousin knows a Gamemakers’ apprentice, barely out of the University, who 
wants to quit the program and work in television. I spent a fortune the other 


night getting him drunk. The most useful piece of info I got was that the 
arena’s sun is in sync with our own.” 

I look at him, baffled. “Isn’t it always?” 

“Sometimes. Depends on the arena. You could have multiple suns or 
none at all. The reason this will be of importance to you is that since the sun 
rises in the east, you will be able to tell direction.” 

Beetee said the tank was in the north. If it’s true, this is essential 
information, but I act blasé. “Guess I would’ve assumed that anyway.” 

“Another thing: About a year or two ago, a committee of 
Gamemakers asked to tour our conservatory and gardens. The Heavensbees 
are known for their collection of rare flowering plants. I gave them the tour 
and then stepped out of the room to order tea. I overheard them discussing 
opening the berms.” 

“Berms?” 

“Tt’s what our gardener calls those mounds of earth.” He points out 
through the window where hanging globes illuminate a little knoll covered 
in flowers. “She plants shrubs and flowers on them. And if the Gamemakers 
are planning to open them in the arena, then something’s either going in, 
coming out, or both.” 

Mutts. He’s trying to tell me the mutt portals are going to be 
concealed by berms of flowers. But I just say, “You have completely lost 
me, sir.” 

“Of course I have. One last thing. From the Capitol’sperspective, the 
Games are the best propaganda we have. You tributes, you’re our stars. You 
carry it out. But only if we control the narrative. Don’t let us.” Plutarch 
grasps my shoulders and gives me a little shake. “No more implicit 
submission for you, Haymitch Abernathy. Blow that water tank sky high. 
The entire country needs you to.” 

I can’t help but think of Pa’s directive to Sarshee Whitcomb. Seems 
like a lot to lay on my doorstep. Fix this mess for us, or else. 

Effie hurries in the door. “Mr. Heavensbee? Oh, there you are. 
Drusilla wants you to help with Louella’s photos. The snake’s stealing 
focus.” 

Plutarch chuckles. “Never work with children or animals, Miss 
Trinket. Come along, Haymitch.” 


“And maybe it isn’t my place to say,” continues Effie, “but she’s 
being awfully hard on Maysilee.” 

“Well, Maysilee’s sixteen years old with great cheekbones — two 
things Drusilla can never achieve.” 

“T know, it’s sad. But I give her points for trying.” Effie’s hands go to 
her face. “I guess it’s time for me to start trying myself.” 

“Oh, I think you’ve got a few years.” 

“All my friends have begun maintenance. It’s just, I hate needles.” 
While Plutarch reassures Effie, I follow them back to the library, 
trying to make sense of his position. If he’s working for the Capitol, I don’t 

think I’ve given him anything to use against us or copped to any 
involvement. But if he’s not Snow’s lackey, and he knows about the plot, 
and he’s trying to help us . . . what is he after? 

His words from a few minutes ago echo back. “You should know that, 
despite appearances, a desire for freedom is not limited to the districts.” 
Was he suggesting that he, with all his wealth and privilege and power, 
lacks freedom? Freedom to do what? Maybe to not have to live in terror of 
Snow poisoning his oysters, for one thing. 

I think about Vitus’s shame over his rebel-sympathizing grandfather. 
That seems to be the norm here, but who was his grandfather? A Capitol 
citizen who sided with the districts. And somebody here must have helped 
Beetee switch out the tokens. It’s possible that Plutarch could be on the 
level. I won’t really know until I’m in the arena and get a good look at those 
berms, if they even exist. 

Back in the library, Lou Lou’s blowing out the candles and greedily 
inhaling the smoke curling off the burned wicks. The smell takes me home 
for a moment, dark winter nights, your last impression as you snuggle safe 
beneath the quilts. Does smoke conjure up the same memory for Lou Lou? 
Like the roll with the seeds did? Something deep and long ago, a home in 
District 11 where she was cherished and cared for? Wyatt talks her into 
sitting for the camera and then I pose for a couple of shots. They show us 
the results, and the photos are miles better than the ones of us in the coal 
miner costumes, chained up in the back of the van. Again, like the reaping 
presentation, we have Plutarch to thank for that. 

He decides he can just direct us all at once for the propos that will air 
throughout the Games, so he doesn’t have to repeat himself. “Let me catch 


you up on what Haymitch and I have been discussing.” 

Yes, I think. Better catch me up. 

“Let’s start with the basics. Public opinion is driven by emotion. 
People have an emotional response to something, then they come up with 
an argument for why it logically makes sense,” says Plutarch. 

“T don’t think that’s smart,” says Wyatt, looking uneasy. I’m sure his 
calculator brain’s appalled by the idea. 

“Oh, I didn’t say it was smart — I just said it was true. Make the 
audience feel for you, they’!l figure out intellectually why you’re the right 
tribute to support,” Plutarch explains. 

“But they hate all of us,” Wyatt counters. “They’re watching us kill 
each other for entertainment.” 

Plutarch waves this away. “They don’t see it that way. Supporting the 
Hunger Games is their patriotic duty.” 

“Whatever. We’re all their enemies,” says Maysilee. 

“Sure, but they have to root for someone. Why not you? You 
Newcomers have done a terrific job setting yourselves up as worthy 
adversaries to the Careers tonight. In fact, I think the Capitol audience finds 
you much more engaging, oddly enough, because you’re not trying to 
appear to be like them.” 

“You mean, because we don’t seem like Capitol suck-ups,” concludes 
Maysilee. 

“Exactly. There’s been a lot of concern in the Capitol lately that 
district citizens are aspiring to break in here. It’s not entirely unfounded, 
particularly with people from One and Two who work closely with us. 
Luxury and military, you know. There are Capitol-born folks assigned out 
there who’ve got mixed families they want to bring here now. But you’re 
unapologetically district. And any way you can drive home that the Careers 
are buying into the Games and trying to be more Capitol than the Capitol 
itself will increase the social disapproval for them.” 

Once in a blue moon a Seam girl falls for a Peacekeeper and ends up 
with a baby, resulting in plenty of social disapproval in 12 as well. But 
there’s never any talk of the kid going to the Capitol. Most are simply 
disowned by the father, who’s then shipped off to another district. 

“Calling them the Careers still makes them sound like they’re better 
than us,” says Maysilee. “We need to give them a stupid nickname.” 


“Name-calling! Excellent!” exclaims Plutarch. “Cheap but effective.” 

Itchy Itchy Haymitchy. Yep. Cheap but effective. 

“But the nickname should call them stupid without being stupid 
itself,” Plutarch goes on. “We need some wordplay. Something clever or 
rhyming or catchy. But not crude — this is a family show.” 

We toss around words. Suck-ups. Bootlickers. Turncoats. Pretenders. 
Backstabbers. Wannabes. Nothing quite works. 

“We need an image that comes from real life,” says Maysilee. “That’s 
why Neddie Newcomer stuck with us. We need something that’s a poor 
copy of something else. Like that artificial sweetener we have to use in our 
candy when real sugar’s too dear. But worse.” 

“Powdered milk,” says Wyatt. 

“Fake leather,” chimes in Effie. 

I think of the beer they sell in the Capitol store, thin, sour, and feeble. 
The joke is a barrel of it wouldn’t get your mamaw tipsy. “Near Beer,” I 
pitch. 

Everybody laughs. The name itself is the joke. 

“Hey, Near Beer Career!” says Wyatt. “It even rhymes.” 

“T think we might be onto something,” says Plutarch. “Haymitch, why 
don’t you kick it off? You’ve already got the bootlegger angle going. People 
loved it. It was one of the most memorable bits of the evening.” 

We work up a little piece where Plutarch asks me about our opponents 
and I answer, “Well, back in Twelve, where we know our libations” — I 
brush off pretend dust from my cocktail glass vest and continue — “we just 
call them Near Beer Careers. You know, because they’re all foam and no 
beer.” 

We play with it and change “no beer” to “no kicker” so as not to 
repeat the first “beer.” Then we make up some similar sayings for variation. 
Maysilee does “All brag and no britches,” since she’s about fashion, and 
Wyatt comes up with a gambler’s “All bluff and no aces.” Lou Lou’s really 
not in a position to write her own, being curled up with the snake now, so 
we decide on the old standby “All bark and no bite.” Wyatt gets her to say 
it, just once, for the camera. The snake shows its teeth on “bite,” so it’s 
really all we need. 

Plutarch seems genuinely happy, saying he’s going to be able to edit 
the clips together into some fine propos. He sighs when he mentions the 


tools that were abolished and incapacitated in the past, ones deemed fated to 
destroy humanity because of their ability to replicate any scenario using any 
person. “And in mere seconds!” He snaps his fingers to emphasize their 
speed. “I guess it was the right thing to do, given our natures. We almost 
wiped ourselves out even without them, so you can imagine. But oh, the 
possibilities!” 

Yeah, it’s amazing we’re here at all. Given our natures. 

Lou Lou’s snake comes up missing, and we’re about to hunt it down 
when Plutarch notices the clock on the mantel and waves us toward the 
door. “Never mind, never mind. We’ve got to get you to bed. Tomorrow’s 
the show.” As he escorts us past the Heavensbees, he starts talking about 
getting everybody to jump on the bandwagon again, which he says is about 
people being eager to join a popular thing, but it makes me think about the 
Covey riding around on their wagon, which was an actual bandwagon. 
When we reach the waiting van, Plutarch wishes us all well. 

I still don’t know what to make of the man, but maybe he really did 
risk his life to give me a last, few priceless moments with Lenore Dove and 
maybe, in the arena, his information will prove true. Who knows if he 
might be able to aid us in some other way once the “show” begins? Yet 
again, it’s better to stay on his good side. 

I offer him my hand. “Thanks for all your help, Plutarch.” 

Gratified, he takes it. “Well, I’m despicable on many levels, but in this 
I’m on your side.” 

I guess we'll see. 

Back at the apartment, Mags and Wiress have a big dinner awaiting 
us — pot roast with all the fixings — but there’s not much room in my 
stomach due to the butterflies. They compliment us on our performances 
and the wonderful work we’ve done with the Newcomers, although I feel 
like most of that credit goes to people other than me. At least I didn’t mess 
things up. 

I’m feeling okay until bedtime, when Maysilee says to me, “Is it true? 
That you’re going off on your own?” 

Wellie apparently got the word out. “I got a one, Maysilee. They’re 
gunning for me. You and Wyatt have a much better chance without me.” I 
don’t mention Lou Lou because I don’t think she stands a chance at all. 


Wyatt nods, factoring odds, no doubt. “My head says you’re right 
but...” 

“Trust your head. I’m a bad bet for you.” I wonder, if I wasn’t part of 
the flooding plot, would I be so selfless? Or would I cling to the safety of 
the group? It doesn’t make me happy to break from them. “Look, who 
knows what will happen in there? We may end up crossing paths. But I 
can’t make you pay for choices I’ve made.” 

“Okay,” says Maysilee. “So we’re back to where we were on the train. 
You don’t want us for your allies.” 

“T don’t want anybody,” I clarify. 

It’s lonely going rogue. I wish I could tell them everything. About the 
plot. About speaking to Lenore Dove. About Snow’s warning and 
Plutarch’s rising sun. But all that would do is invite questions and 
ultimately cause trouble, so that’s where I leave it. I don’t want anybody. 
Lights off. 

Lou Lou’s immediately dead to the world and the rest of us toss and 
turn a lot. I keep dreaming about Lenore Dove, then snapping awake. Her 
name song’s hitting way too close to home. In it, a guy loses the love of his 
life, Lenore, and he’s going crazy for missing her. Then this big old raven 
shows up at his house and won’t leave and whenever he asks the bird 
anything, it just says “Nevermore” — which, as you can imagine, just 
makes him crazier. 


“Tell this soul with sorrow laden if, within the distant Aidenn, 

It shall clasp a sainted maiden whom the angels name Lenore — 

Clasp a rare and radiant maiden whom the angels name Lenore.” 
Quoth the Raven “Nevermore.” 


Angels, Lenore Dove told me, are humans with wings, who live ina 
place called heaven. Some people believe, she said, it’s a possible 
destination after death. A good world for good people to go to. But Lenore 
Dove is the winged being on my mind at the moment. If there is anything 
after the life I’m about to lose, will I be with her again? Like the guy in her 
song, I’d sure like to know. But the Raven isn’t giving the answer either of 
us wants to hear. 


“J 


The night seems both endless and way too short. I’m awake but 
exhausted when Mags comes to rouse us. We wash up and put on our old 
training outfits, since they won’t dress us until we’re in the holding pens at 
the arena. I know Maysilee’s unhappy with me for abandoning the 
Newcomers. As a peace offering, I slip Beetee’s birthday gift, the turn-a- 
potato-into-a-light packet, into her hand as we head to the kitchen. 
Although she doesn’t acknowledge me, it disappears into her pocket. 

There’s a big hot breakfast, but it’s all Wyatt and I can do to swallow 
a few bites, the stuff sticks in our throats so, and Maysilee only wants 
coffee. Lou Lou, on the other hand, eats a stack of pancakes as high as her 
head and fistfuls of bacon, confirming that she’s too far gone to know what 
the next few days hold for her. That’s a blessing, I guess. She looks so 
defenseless without her snake. 

Wiress gives us last-minute pointers and then seems to shut down. 
Mags hugs each of us and says that whatever happens, we have been 
remarkable. She knows at least three of us won’t be back. What else can she 
say? 

All pretense is over. We are being propelled forward, faster and faster, 
to the inevitable moment when the gong sounds. All the tribute 


preparation — the costumes, the training, the interviews — was just a 
distraction from the real agenda. Today some of us will die. 

Drusilla drops by the apartment to complete her last official escort 
duty, seeing we’re searched and loaded into the van. I don’t know where 
Maysilee stowed the packet, but she comes up clean. Once we’re chained 
in, a woman in a white coat and carrying a set of syringes shoots something 
into each of our forearms. She doesn’t have to tell us it’s our tracker, an 
electronic device that allows the Gamemakers to find us in the arena. 

“What happens if we win? Do they take it out?” asks Wyatt. 

“We collect all of them from the tributes, dead or alive,” says the 
woman. “They’re reusable. Of course, this year we needed twenty-four 
extra.” 

Thanks for reminding us. 

Drusilla stands at the back of the van. “All right, you lot,” she says. 
“Try not to embarrass me.” 

Maysilee rallies one last time. “As if you needed our help.” 

Drusilla slams the door shut on us. 

We’re taken to some sort of runway where a half dozen hovercraft 
await, then loaded into a windowless compartment and strapped into our 
seats across from District 11. They look as terrif ied as we do. Only Lou 
Lou seems unbothered. She catches sight of the token that one of the girls, 
Chicory, wears — a flower woven of grass — and fixates on it. Then she 
begins to make little hand motions as she sings in a breathy voice: 


Flower there beside my feet 
Growing up between the corn 
Combine’s here so duck your head 
Duck your head 

Duck your head 

Combine’s here so duck your head 
To see another morn. 


Chicory reacts with surprise. She addresses the rest of us, since Lou 
Lou’s mental state precludes answering. “How does she know that song? 
You sing it in Twelve?” 


As something of an authority on songs in 12 by virtue of time spent 
with Lenore Dove, I shake my head. 

“That’s a harvest song for kids,” Chicory continues. “That’s our 
song.” She peers at Lou Lou’s face, exchanges a look with her 11 tributes, 
then sings: 


Mockingjay up on the branch — 
Lou Lou takes over the song at once. 


Nesting in this apple tree 
Picking time so fly away 
Fly away 

Fly away 

Picking time so fly away 
Fly away with me. 


“How do you explain that, then?” Chicory asks us. 

“We don’t,” says Maysilee. “She’s not ours. Ours is dead and she’s the 
replacement they sent us. Like as not, she’s from Eleven. Our mentors think 
so anyway.” She never seems to care if the Capitol’s listening. 

Tile, the largest of the 11 tributes, speaks in a tight voice. “You didn’t 
think that was worth mentioning?” 

“We didn’t know for sure until now,” says Wyatt. “We’ve just been 
trying to look out for her. Does it matter where they took her from, Eleven 
or Twelve? Aren’t we all on the same side?” 

Lou Lou ignores us all as she tries to wriggle out of her safety straps. 

“Do you know who she might be?” I ask. 

Chicory shakes her head. “We’re a big district. And who knows how 
long she’s been with them.” She leans toward Lou Lou as much as her 
straps allow. “Little girl? What’s your real name? If one of us makes it back, 
we can tell your family.” 

Lou Lou hesitates, attempts to speak, then grabs her ear and lets out a 
shriek. Wyatt catches her free hand and tries to soothe her. 

“We think they put something in her ear to control her,” Maysilee tells 
them. 


“That’s why you wanted us to be careful what we say,” says Chicory, 
putting it together. “They’re listening.” She sits back in her seat, her face 
sorrowtul. “Maybe her people will recognize her.” 

I don’t say so, but I’ve got a feeling her people are long dead, and if 
they’re alive, how tragic for them to see her only to lose her again. There’s 
no good ending to Lou Lou’s story. 

We lift off, which would be amazing under other circumstances but 
here only adds to my queasiness. Everybody shuts up for a while, which 
gives me a chance to mentally prepare. I should be planning my strategy in 
the arena, but I just keep thinking about Lenore Dove, and how much I love 
her, and wondering if she’s home by now and how she’s doing. And Ma. 
And Sid. Burdock and Blair. Hattie. Before I know it, we’re descending. 

When we arrive at the arena, we’re escorted directly from an interior 
landing pad to a hallway. I can’t look out, but it feels underground, and I’m 
certain I’m on Sub-A. I turn my head from side to side, trying to take in 
every detail of the place as we walk along a curved concrete floor. There are 
some sort of pipes to my right and doors spaced out to my left, which begin 
with four marked with the number 6 and go up from there. Four of the same 
number each time. 7, 7, 7, 7, 8, 8, 8,8... It’s a bit of a hike until we get to 
an 11 and they direct Chicory inside. We lose the rest of our 11 allies and 
then a Peacekeeper opens the first door marked 12. 

I hold out my arms. Without a word, Wyatt and Maysilee join ina 
group embrace. Lou Lou wiggles into the center of the hug and we tighten 
our hold, feeling one another’s pulses and sweat and skin. Ten minutes from 
now, who will even still have a heartbeat? 

After a minute, a Peacekeeper says, “Let’s go.” 

We peel off into our rooms, me last of all. Before I go in, I catch sight 
of the next door down the hall, which has a 1 on it. A ring of tributes for the 
opening ceremony. 

I’m alone in a circular room with a transparent tube in the center of it. 
My launchpad. A neatly folded set of clothes sits on a lone chair. Black, like 
Maysilee suspected. 

The intercom crackles to life. A voice greets me: “Welcome to your 
launch room.” At home we call it the Stockyard. The place where animals 
wait to be slaughtered. The voice instructs, “The tributes are to change into 


their new outfits, courtesy of the Capitol.” Courtesy of the Capitol. My 
flour sack shorts. Ma. Sid. 

I strip, tossing my training outfit in a pile on the floor. All the arena 
clothes — underwear, long-sleeved shirt, pants — feel like one of the old 
silk scarves Lenore Dove uses to accent her costumes. Thin and cool, the 
fabric runs through my hands like water. There’s a belt but no loops on the 
pants, only on the flowing shirt, so I fasten it around my waist. It’s made of 
stretchy material, and instead of a buckle, it’s secured with two metallic 
circles that interlock and then unfasten with a quick twist. When I finish 
dressing, my knees feel wobbly and I drop into the chair, listening to the 
pounding of my heart. The arena’s minutes away. I can’t remember what to 
do. I hear Wiress’s voice... . 


First avoid the slaughter, 
Get weapons, look for water. 


Water. Right. I’m supposed to drown the brain. What? 

More instructions. “Tributes, please enter your tubes.” 

I rise shakily to my feet as the door handle turns and Effie Trinket 
flies into the room. “Wait, not yet! I have to check him!” She’s white as a 
sheet. “I only found out I was supposed to do this at breakfast,” she says in 
a hushed voice. “No one could find Magno.” She quickly goes over my 
outfit, adjusting the belt. “Did you see this?” She shows me my pants have 
a handkerchief in one of the pockets, which I leave in place. 

“Thanks,” I manage. 

“Tributes who are not in their tubes in thirty seconds will be 
disciplined,” says the voice. 

“Come on!” Effie guides me to the tube and centers me on a glass 
plate. She arranges my token so it’s outside the shirt. 

The trembling of her hands allows me to ask a favor. “Will you make 
sure my token gets home to my girl?” 

Effie nods and lays a hand over it solemnly. “I will do my absolute 
best.” She steps back and the door begins to slide shut. “Remember, 
Haymitch, don’t step off your plate for sixty seconds!” As the door clicks 
shut, she pumps the air with a fist and adds, “And keep a positive attitude!” 


I rise up, locking my eyes on hers until things go black, making me 
lose my bearings. My sweaty palms swipe the sides of the glass tube as I try 
to steady myself. Then the tube runs out and I’m teetering on my plate 
when a gust of air hits my face and the light blinds my eyes. As they adjust, 
my brows shoot up in disbelief as I get my first look at the arena. 

The beauty takes my breath away. 

“Ladies and Gentlemen, let the Fiftieth Hunger Games begin!” 
proclaims an announcer. 

A scowl contracts my face as suspicion sets in. It’s just too attractive 
to be good. The smooth green meadow stretching for miles in either 
direction. The array of colorful songbirds overhead that match the tufts of 
cheerful flowers underfoot that match the outfits on the tributes’ backs. Sky 
so blue it hurts your eyes, clouds so fluffy you want to bounce on them. 
And the smell! Like they bottled the best day of spring and uncorked it just 
for us. 

I block my nose and begin to mouth-breathe to avoid the dizzying 
scent. I try to examine the shiny gold Cornucopia in its nest of weapons and 
supplies that rests in the center of the meadow fifty yards away, but a gentle 
breeze caresses my face, and the birdsong distracts me with thoughts of 
Lenore Dove. There are woods here, too, like our woods in 12, far off to my 
left. To my right, a small mountain with a crown of snow. Is that where the 
tank is? Under the mountain? 

A fluffball of a bunny rabbit hops up to my foot and nibbles the grass 
next to my plate, its pale gray fur tinted lilac and pink. A shade of dove. I’m 
reaching for the silken coat when suddenly the rabbit startles and speeds 
off, bringing me to my senses. 

Focus! my brain orders. What are you supposed to be doing? 


First avoid the slaughter, 
Get weapons, look for water. 


Right. I have to get weapons and get out of here. But which direction 
do I need to run? North. Beetee said go north. And Plutarch said the arena 
sun is positioned like our sun. Do I believe Plutarch? I think of getting to 
say good-bye to my family and how he covered for me with the milk 
pitcher and the call to Lenore Dove. . . . Okay, what the hell, I do! Wiress 


said to trust your instincts and mine say he was telling the truth. If I don’t 
locate any berms, maybe I’|l reconsider. But for now... 

It’s nine o’clock in the morning and the sun’s rising up behind the 
Cornucopia directly across from me. Okay, that’s east, west to my back, that 
makes north to my right. No! My left. North to the left. Where the woods 
are, not the mountain. That’s good news because the tributes fanned out to 
my right are mostly Careers, Silka on the next plate, then Panache and the 
other girl and boy from District 1, then District 2, while to the left it’s 
nothing but Newcomers. In general, District 1’s too close for comfort, but 
theyll want weapons and kills more than they’!] want to chase me down, 
especially if I’m armed, and there are such easy pickings. I spot Ampert and 
the other District 3 tributes sandwiched between Districts 2 and 4 and have 
to squelch the impulse to run in to protect them. Ampert wouldn’t want me 
to. He’d want me to clear out and find a mutt portal and rendezvous with 
him as soon as possible. He’ll be headed north soon, too. 

I home in on a spring-green backpack near the tail of the Cornucopia. 
I can run at a diagonal directly at it, grab a few weapons on the way, or at 
least a knife, and hopefully be gone before anyone notices. It might work — 
people look pretty confused. I see Panache’s head twist as a daffodil-yellow 
bird perches on his shoulder and twitters. 

Then the gong rings out and the treads of my new boots grip the 
meadow grass as I sprint for the backpack. Barely breaking pace, I scoop up 
a spear in my left hand and a knife in my right, which I use to hook the 
strap of the backpack. I allow myself one quick glance over my shoulder, 
which is enough to reassure me that the Careers are late to the party, some 
still on their plates, others slow on the uptake and just reaching the 
weapons. As I make for the woods, I lock eyes with Kerna for a second, 
clock her sunflower as she heads for a weapon. And then I just run for those 
distant trees. 

It’s only moments before the screams begin, but I force myself to stay 
on course, knowing that seeing a District 12 tribute or any Newcomer at 
death’s door could pull me into the fray. Was that Lou Lou’s shriek? It was 
a girl’s, a young one’s certainly. Don‘ look back, I tell myself. Don’t you 
dare look back. 

My right arm aches from the weight of the pack, so I take a moment 
to secure it on my back and slip the knife safely in my belt. Spear in my 


right hand now, I settle on a jog I think I can sustain for the long haul to the 

north. The meadow grass, which was short and even at the Cornucopia, 

increases in height as I progress, until it’s tall enough to tangle my boots if I 

don’t step high, so I step high and keep an eye out for snakes. I only spot 

flowers, songbirds, and the occasional bunny. Nothing venomous or deadly. 
I revisit Wiress’s checklist. 


First avoid the slaughter, 
Doing it. 

Get weapons, 

Got them. 

look for water. 


I can’t yet. Not until I’m safely in the woods and then it will have to 
be on my way north. Say I find it quick. Then what? 


Find food and where to sleep, 


Nope, way too soon. Still slaughter avoidance going on. Then I have 
to get as close to the tank as possible and find a mutt portal. But I feel okay 
about my progress. 

I run as long as I can, then slow to a hike and use my spear for a 
walking stick. The grass now reaches my waist. Up ahead, the forest 
borders the meadow in a smooth arc. The lush trees, a mix of greens with 
bursts of gold and orange, laden with bright blooms and ripe fruit, promise 
everything I seek. Shade from the hot sun, food to fill my belly, 
concealment from the Careers. The heady scent of pine and blossoms 
wafting from the woods calms my racing heart. Charming... enticing... 
these words don’t do it justice. There’s something almost magical about it, 
as if once inside those leafy arms, nothing bad could ever befall you. This 
must be how insects feel in the nepenthes plant, right before they drown. 
Which may well be my fate when the tank explodes. 


When I reach the tree line, I judge I’ve covered about two miles. I 
climb on a big rock to check for tributes, but the expanse of grass seems 
empty of both allies and enemies. The cannon shots begin, letting me know 
the bloodbath at the Comucopia has ended. Normally, they fire to confirm 
any death, but those come on so thick and fast at the beginning that the 
Gamemakers wait until the initial killing spree has ended. The booms keep 
coming, resonating in my backbone, until I count eighteen of us dead. I 
won’t know who until tonight when they show the faces of the fallen 
tributes in the sky. But there are only sixteen Careers, so the Newcomers 
have not been spared. Probably, many are Newcomers. 

I try not to think about who, but it could be Maysilee or Wyatt or Lou 
Lou or Ringina or Ampert. ... What if Ampert has already been taken out? 
What happens to the plan then? He was an easy target in that big patch of 
Careers. ... No! I tell myself. No. He’s too smart. He will find you. Just do 
your part of the job. 

I take a seat on the rock to catch my breath and examine my 
backpack. After years of hauling grain for Hattie, I can confidently judge it 
to be around twenty-five pounds. It’s made of a nice tough canvas with 
padded straps. The spring green should blend well with the trees. I hesitate 
before I open it — my life may well depend on the contents — then flip 
back the flap and begin to lay out my supplies. 

A mesh hammock, same color as the pack, cushions a fancy pair of 
binoculars. Two plastic gallon jugs full of water. That accounts for much of 
the weight. A dozen apples. A dozen eggs in a cardboard carton, which I 
determine are hard-boiled by spinning them. And finally, six large potatoes, 
which excite me until I remember I gave the light bulb kit to Maysilee. 
Well, she and Wyatt stand a better chance of not getting caught cheating 
with Beetee’s stuff, given they’ve got a zinc scrip coin and a copper 
medallion between them. Hopefully, they got some potatoes, too. For me, 
these will probably be dinner. 

To be honest, given the size of the pack and its proximity to the 
Cornucopia, I was hoping for better. I scrounge around inside to make sure I 
didn’t miss anything. An outside pocket adds a generous packet of coin- 
sized black tablets to my haul. I’m thinking maybe if you drop them in 
water, they turn into a steak dinner or something, but a cautious nibble 
blows that theory. If I’m not mistaken, these are the same charcoal tablets 


Mamaw used to buy from the Marches’ shop for her indigestion when she 
overate. A bad joke on the Gamemakers’ part, given that no tribute’s in 
danger of overeating. They’re probably all having a good laugh at my 
reaction now. Whatever. Maybe I can use them for camouflage or 
something. 

I take a big swig of water and reload my pack. No food allowed until I 
get a better sense of what’s available in the woods. Then I make sure the 
mountain’s squarely at my back and head into the trees. 

It’s a relief to get off the meadow grass and onto a forest floor made 
of dirt covered in pine needles. Scattered patches of emerald moss and a 
rainbow of ferns add a decorative touch. In a few minutes, I spot my first 
berm, smooth and symmetrical with a glorious layer of buttercups. Plutarch 
was right about that much anyway. Does it conceal a mutt portal? No time 
to check now, and anyway, I’m not northerly enough. 

The woods are as picture-perfect as the meadow, full of sweet colorful 
things, but the farther I press on, the madder I get. That tree? Groaning with 
apples. Those nests? Full of eggs. And streams burbling with crystal-clear 
water abound. If it’s in my backpack, it’s easy pickings. Probably I could 
dig anywhere and find potatoes. Was my entire pack just a big joke? 

Here I am, hauling twenty-five extra pounds around like a saphead. 
Part of me feels like dumping the contents on the ground but then I’d just 
have to waste time collecting it all again, so I keep trudging on, noting the 
berms along the way. I hear two more cannon shots. Twenty dead now. In a 
usual Games, only four tributes would be left alive. This year, twenty-eight 
of us remain. 

When my thirst begins to get to me, I stop by a stream. Propping my 
pack against a tree, I scoop up a few handfuls of icy water. It’s a little 
metallic, but not so much as our well water back home. I slow down, 
though, because guzzling cold water on a hot day can give me a bellyache. 

As I lean against my pack, a dove-colored rabbit hops up across the 
stream from me and helps itself to a good, long drink. It sits on the bank, 
ears twitching, reminding me that I’ve helped Burdock set snares on 
occasion. I don’t have any wire, though. And could I possibly kill a creature 
that brings to mind my girl? 

I’m pondering this when the bunny starts squealing like a baby bird, 
goes stiff as a board, then falls over dead. A trickle of red stains the fur on 


its chin. 


> 


Poison. That’s what’s running in this stream. I press my hand against 
my stomach, registering that what I took for cold-water pangs are too sharp 
and burning. I immediately stick my finger down my throat and manage to 
gag up some acid before I remember that’s not always the best way to deal 
with poison. It can hurt you as much coming up as it does going down. An 
antidote’s best, like the one President Snow carried in his pocket. But I have 
no antidote. 

I dig through my pack for something that might soak up the toxic 
fluid. Something spongey like bread, but there’s nothing of the kind. Would 
that even be the right thing to do? The pain intensifies, so I swallow some 
clean water from the bottle, hoping to dilute the poison, to no avail. My 
breath comes in gasps and perspiration beads my face. This is it, then. How 
I die. Not ending the Hunger Games, just curled up in the dirt, poisoned like 
a rat. I dump out all my supplies and reach for a potato, the most benign 
thing I have, and have just taken a bite of its hard, crisp flesh when my eyes 
land on the charcoal tablets. 

It’s a fall day a few years back and we’ve overdone it on the hot 
pepper soup. Mamaw’s chomping on her tablets, saying, “Good for 


whatever ails your belly. Fire, wind, or poison.” I thought the Game-makers 
meant them as a joke, but maybe they are the antidote? 

Without hesitating, I spit out the potato, tear into the packet, and stuff 
a handful of tablets in my mouth. I grind them to powder with my teeth, 
wash them down, and gauge the condition of my stomach. No change. I 
send another half dozen down my gullet. This time, I think I can begin to 
feel some relief. Without warning, I spew everything since yesterday’s 
lunch into the stream. I kneel on all fours, panting, dripping sweat and 
saliva. I’m still queasy, but the pain has ebbed. For good measure, I put a 
tablet on my tongue and let it dissolve. My back finds a tree trunk and I 
collapse against it, waiting for my heartbeat to slow. 

I might not die. I can’t die. Not just yet. Not before I blow that tank 
sky-high. As I step back from death’s door, I try to get back on track. My 
supplies lie in a jumble at my feet. My stupid, redundant supplies that I 
could find anywhere — 

Suddenly, I sit upright as I remember Mags’s advice: “Look for clues 
to your arena. The Gamemakers sometimes hide little hints about the nature 
of the arena in their design.” 

If the contents of my backpack are clues, what are they revealing? 
Why would all of my food and drink be easy pickings in the arena, 
unless . . . I take in the rabbit carcass across the stream . . . unless they 
aren’t. Unless every mouthful is precious, because their counterparts are 
poisonous. 

The minute I conceive of this possibility, I know it’s true. That the 
luscious apples on the boughs over my head are as deadly as the crystal 
water. And if that is true, what other food and drink in here will kill you? 
Everything, probably. It isn’t safe to sample anything that didn’t come from 
the Cornucopia. 

As I brush off my supplies and carefully repack them, I think about 
the two cannon shots that fired after the bloodbath. Did one Career and one 
Newcomer die, thereby alerting the rest of their alliance to the poisonous 
nature of the arena? Reminds me of the canaries we take down to the coal 
mines in 12. They are the first to die when there’s deadly gas around, 
warning the miners of imminent danger. Maybe both were Careers, because 
I bet Ampert and Wellie would’ve figured out pretty quick that the food in 
the packs is a clue. Probably, if we hadn’t formed such tight alliances, far 


more tributes would be dying now. Were the Gamemakers counting on that, 
and have we thrown them? 

Every bite of clean food is priceless. I consider the rabbit again, fur 
color or no. While I’ve no appetite now, I know I’I1l be famished later, but 
its bloody beard puts me off. The last thing I need is to be ingesting more 
poison. What I need is to be moving north. Unfortunately, when I rise to my 
feet, a wave of nausea hits me and I clutch my spear to stay upright. How 
long will the toxins take to leave my system? 

I take deep gulps of the finely crafted air, which no longer charms me. 
It’s not deadly, but it’s not fresh either. Something unwholesome hides 
under the perfume. I remember the dazed looks on the tributes’ faces as we 
awaited the gong. Did the air drug us? And is it contributing to how weak 
and sick I feel now? Or is the water to blame for that? I guess I can’t stop 
breathing, though, so I wobble off into the north. 

It’s no good. After a few hundred yards, I slide to the forest floor, 
throw up my latest charcoal tablet, and scrunch back into a ball. The chills 
begin, racking my body and causing my teeth to chatter so hard I’m in 
danger of breaking them. All I want is to be home in my bed in 12, with Ma 
there to take care of me. To spoon me sips of chicken back broth and pile 
every quilt on my shaking body and put a goose feather pillow under my 
head. The thought of Ma watching, unable to get her hands on me, makes 
me try to look less pathetic. I force myself to sit up and dry my dripping 
face on my handkerchief. 

I’m nothing but a sitting duck. I need to hide, but since there are no 
real paths in the woods, I can’t get off of one. Over there looks no safer than 
right here. If a Career followed me across the meadow, I’m not just a sitting 
duck, I’m a dead one. Muddled, I reach for Wiress’s song: 


Find food and where to sleep, 
Fire and friends can keep. 


Heading north takes a distant second to finding a safe place to 
recover. Fire and friends will have to keep. I hoist myself back onto my 
boots and consider climbing a tree, but I’m so woozy I’m sure to tumble 
out. What I really need to do is lie down somewhere hidden. I totter around 
for a bit, veering a little to the east, and come upon a large blueberry patch 


laden with fruit the size of cherries. Obviously, I can’t eat them, but the 
dense bushes, free of thorns, offer a refuge. I lay on my belly and burrow 
deep into the thicket, dragging my pack behind me. At what I judge to be 
the center, I arrange my hammock on the ground and collapse onto it, 
pulling the meshy skin around me for warmth. I can’t see out, so I’m hoping 
no one else can see in. Doesn’t matter, I’m going nowhere. 

For several hours, I alternate between violent chills and drenching 
fever sweats. Pain spikes my muscles, and my head feels like it’s trapped in 
one of Tam Amber’s vises. I vaguely wonder if some of my fellow tributes 
are experiencing the same misery. No cannons have fired since the two I 
attributed to the poisoning. Possibly others now lie helpless like me, waiting 
for the rest of the poison to work its way out. Whatever has happened, the 
Gamemakers don’t appear to be unleashing mutts or driving us together. 
After twenty opening-day deaths, we’re rewarded with a lull in bloodshed. 
Our performance has been satisfactory. 

Nightfall brings the anthem blasting through the arena. I rally enough 
to pull myself to the edge of the berry patch and look up to see the flag of 
Panem projected on the sky. It’s time for the memorial photos of the dead 
tributes, a rare hint into our standing in the Games. Twenty today. I splay 
my fingers on the dirt, pressing down one for each death. After I’ve run 
through them twice, itll be over and I’ll know how the Newcomers have 
fared. 

When the first fallen tribute appears, I register the outfit, snot green, 
and know it’s a District 1 girl. Carat, I think her name was. Then we jump 
to Urchin, the boy from District 4 who knocked me from the chariot with 
his trident. I’m relieved to see District 3 has been spared, particularly 
Ampert. A boy and a girl in District 5 orange bring the Career death count 
to four. One of my doves, Miles, the kid who couldn’t breathe in the 
shower, appears next, and my heart sinks. The Careers are all through by 
District 5. That means that the other sixteen deaths today are all 
Newcomers. I watch as they unspool. A second dove, Velo from 6. Both 
boys from 7. All four kids from 8. All four from 9. Both girls from 10. Tile, 
the boy from 11. The pinkie on my left hand remains lifted. One tribute left. 
Is it another kid from 11 or one of my own? 

Wyatt. Wyatt Callow whose luck just ran out. I can’t believe how hard 
it hits me, how much it hurts. A few days ago, I didn’t even want him for an 


ally. But he wasn’t a bad guy, really. He just came from a rotten family. 
District 12’s sympathy will be in short supply. 

How’s the betting going, Mr. Callow? You make some money on your 
boy today? 

Most people wouldn’t say this to him, but they wouldn’t stop another 
from doing so, as repellent as his behavior has been. 

I wonder how Wyatt died and immediately feel certain he was 
protecting Lou Lou, the way no one had ever protected him. Including me. I 
ran off and left all the Newcomers to fend for one another. I know I had to if 
I was going to carry out Beetee’s plan, but it sure doesn’t feel good. 

A fury rises up in me at the thought of Wyatt’s sacrifice and how the 
Capitol has pitted us tributes against one another in this poisonous beauty of 
an arena. The Games must end. Here. Now. Every death reinforces the 
importance of the arena plot succeeding. Focus, I tell myself, and struggle 
through the brain fog. I remember that all four of the kids from 9 are dead. 
Did Ampert manage to scavenge a sunflower before the hovercraft 
collected their bodies? If he didn’t, what could we possibly do? We’re 
useless without those explosives. Maybe even with them, but certainly 
without them. 

The sky goes dark. Show’s over. I crawl back to my hammock, wrap 
my arms around my backpack, and shiver myself to sleep. 

When I wake late in the morning, I find myself staring into a pair of 
limpid green eyes. One of the gray bunnies has taken cover in the brambles 
and has hunkered down a few feet from me. Maybe it’s just a normal rabbit 
that got thrown into this creepy place and feels as frightened as I do. It 
could be accustomed to human keepers and found me because it’s hungry 
and has figured out all the plants and grass and everything are as poisonous 
as the water. I could use a smart companion. I take out an apple, bite off a 
small piece, and gingerly set it in front of my new friend. After a bit, it 
scoots forward, wiggles its nose, and begins to nibble. I realize this is a way 
to double-check if the apples in my pack are toxic, which makes me feel 
kind of lousy since I sort of owe the rabbits. The one that woke me up at my 
plate, the one that sacrificed its life at the stream to warn me. Wait, am I 
saying it knew the water was poisonous and chose to protect me? That this 
bunny here would do the same? Okay, okay, I know I’m over-crediting the 


bunnies. But still. I don’t want one of my last acts to be taking out an ally, 
especially a dove-colored one. 

Fortunately, it doesn’t die and I plow into my apple, which tastes 
amazing and helps me assess my situation. So, twenty died yesterday. Four 
Careers. Sixteen Newcomers. Those aren’t good numbers. Even though I’m 
no Wyatt, I can figure out we used to have twice as many Newcomers as 
Careers, and now we’re almost even. We may be smarter, but they’re 
mowing us down with brute force. I’m afraid Ampert’s theory isn’t holding 
up too well in practice. Although maybe now that the bloodbath’s over, the 
Newcomers’ brain power and unity will give them an advantage. 

“Find Haymitch.” 

“Aa!” My head bashes into a tangle of berry branches at the 
whispered voice. 

“Find Haymitch.” 

A pair of little hands wrap around my boots and Lou Lou’s face, 
splattered in dry blood and dirt, materializes over them. 

“Found him,” she says. 

The rabbit bolts, and I have to resist the impulse to follow. Lou Lou? 
She is not part of the plan. How did she find me? Is she being tracked? 

Suddenly, my bushes don’t seem safe at all. “Hey there, Lou Lou,” I 
say, trying to sound calm. “You alone? Are the others with you?” 

“Mountain.” 

Just us, then? Everybody else went to the right after I ran to the left? 

Lou Lou tugs on my boots for me to follow her, then back-crawls out 
of the bushes. Not knowing what I will find, I emerge, knife and spear at the 
ready, but our surroundings seem quiet and deserted. Maybe both packs did 
go to the mountain. 

A quick appraisal of the immediate area solves the mystery of her 
finding me. I broke off several branches digging my way into the thicket 
and, most embarrassingly, my handkerchief snagged on one and hangs there 
like a welcome sign. The illusion that I’d successfully camouflaged myself 
is silly. I’m just lucky no Careers came along. Even Lou Lou’s appearance 
presents a problem for a rascal bent on winning. But I said in my interview 
that the Newcomers were “one hundred percent safe with me.” And she’s 
supposedly from my district. I guess I can look after her, at least until 


Ampert shows up and I have to blow up the tank. Then that will be my sole 
priority. 
Lou Lou stares up into an apple tree and quietly sings to herself: 


Mockingjay up on the branch 
Nesting in this apple tree 
Picking time so fly away 

Fly away 

Fly away 

Picking time so fly away 

Fly away with me. 


She reaches up for an apple and I grab her hand. “No, no, not those. 
Those are the bad apples. I’ve got a good one here.” I pull a nice shiny red 
one from my pack and settle her on the ground with it. She carries no pack 
or supplies of her own. As usual, she attacks her food ravenously. It’s going 
to be a full-time job keeping her away from the deadly fruit. It’s a wonder 
she made it this far. I guess the meadow was safe, and perhaps she didn’t 
notice the fruit in the dark. Judging by the dirt on her clothes, she spent 
some time sleeping on the ground. 

I peel a couple of hard-boiled eggs for us. I consider asking her about 
Wyatt, but there’s a real likelihood she witnessed his death, perhaps even 
wears his blood, and I don’t want to set her off. “Who told you to find me, 
Lou Lou?” 

She taps her bad ear. “Find Haymitch.” 

That pulls me up short. The Gamemakers? Why would they send her 
to find me? It can’t be for any good reason. 

“Murderers,” Lou Lou adds, picking at the dried blood on her cheek. 

She finishes her egg and, without asking, finishes mine, too. She starts 
rooting around in my pack and comes out with a potato. I gently pry it from 
her hand. “For later. For supper.” But I let her drink her fill of the water, 
afraid she could dive for a stream at any time. She’s already drugged and 
brainwashed — I don’t need her sick as well. No question, her arrival has 
thrown a wrench in my plans. I don’t know if I can manage to do my part 
with her tagging along, but I can’t just dump her alone in the woods for the 


Careers to slaughter. Like Wyatt said, she’s ours now. For better or worse, 
she’s part of the flood mission. 

I wet her handkerchief and wipe her face clean. “Come on,” I tell her. 
“Let’s find your snake.” 

This suggestion perks her up and she bounces to her feet. Using the 
sun to get my bearings, I lead her north. I’ve got two jobs to accomplish 
before I meet up with Ampert, which could be at any moment. First, I need 
to find a sparking rock and confirm that I can make fire with my flint 
striker. Then I have to locate a mutt portal, probably under a berm, that will 
serve as an entrance to the tunnels. 

As we walk along, I keep an eye peeled for likely rocks. Flint would 
be best, but Lenore Dove said any kind of sparking rock would do. The 
floor of the forest proves devoid of rocks, but I feel like I’ve seen some... 
the pattern of colorful stones. . . glistening in the sunlight . . . the stream! 
That’s it. When I was retching into it, I remember the shiny rocks winking 
up at me. But the water — it will be poisonous. Could I risk dipping my 
hand in to snag one? 

When Lou Lou shows too much interest in a raspberry bush, I distract 
her with another apple and slip off to a nearby stream. With the tip of my 
spear, I dislodge several rocks from the bed and slide them onto the bank. I 
wipe them with leaves, pour on a bit of clean water, pat them off, and scoop 
them up. I get back to Lou Lou just in time to stop her from raiding the 
bush. I go ahead and give her chunks of the raw potato I bit into yesterday, 
and eat a few pieces myself to calm my rocky stomach. Doesn’t take long 
for us to finish it off. 

The rocks dry quickly in the midday sun, and I give them to Lou Lou 
to hold, emphasizing the importance of the job, but really to keep her 
occupied. After untying the flint striker from my neck, I cup it in my hands, 
letting the sunbeams play off the bird and snake heads. I allow myself a 
moment with Lenore Dove, imagining her in the Meadow among her flock 
of geese or watching me on the ancient television Tam Amber manages to 
keep functional. Not on the square, where anyone can gather to see huge 
projections of the Games, but privately in the Covey’s funny, crooked 
house. Forbidden by her uncles to leave. Distraught, but unbruised, 
unbeaten, unbroken, and safe at home. 


I consider faking a moment of discovery that I’ve brought a flint 
striker into the arena, but since I’ve already collected the rocks, that seems 
stagey. Instead, I decide to double down on the rascal angle and admit I’ve 
pulled a fast one on the Gamemakers. A rascal, not a rebel. Just a trickster 
who’s trying to win the Games. 

“See this, Lou Lou?” I say. “This is our ticket to a hot meal. Let’s start 
with that pink rock.” 

Lou Lou plucks out the rosy stone from our stash and sets it in my 
open hand. I grip the flint striker in the other, and take a crack at it, bringing 
the steel edge of the striker across the surface of the stone. Nothing. After 
three more attempts, I know it’s a dud. “Green,” I instruct Lou Lou. But it’s 
as sparkless as the first. As we work our way through the pile, my heart 
begins to sink. What if there isn’t a sparking rock in the whole arena? When 
I’d mentioned it to Beetee, he’d said there “possibly” was. But he’d never 
come back and said there weren’t any, leading me to assume I’d find one. If 
not, the whole gig is up, and I’m left to wait for Snow to kill me. 

She sets the final rock, a long, muddy-gray crystal in front of me. 
Quartz, maybe? I take a vicious swipe at it, drawing the rock back for good 
measure. A spray of sparks flies, letting me know we’ve found a live one. 
Lou Lou claps and I let out a huff of relief. “Baked potatoes tonight,” I 
promise her with a grin. 

Since we’re not immediately attacked by mutts, I figure the 
Gamemakers have decided to let my rascally behavior ride. It adds a little 
harmless spice to the Games. Bet my sponsors are sending some dollars my 
way, too. Since Mags and Wiress know I’ve got Lou Lou to feed now, I 
hope it’s enough for something to complement our potatoes. 

Lou Lou gives a tremendous yawn and, just like that, she curls up like 
a kitten and falls asleep. It’s so fast, I wonder if the Gamemakers are 
drugging her again, but maybe she just hasn’t gotten much rest in here. I try 
to rouse her, giving her shoulder a little shake, but she only frowns and 
mutters something. What now? I can’t carry her, not in this condition, and I 
can’t abandon her. Now’s as good a time as any to bake those potatoes, I 
guess.... 

First, Ill need to build a fire. I wander around, never straying far from 
Lou Lou, collecting the driest pine needles, kindling, and small branches I 
can find. This is a strategy Hattie taught me: Steer clear of green or wet 


wood to minimize your smoke. No use in pointing out you’re breaking the 
law, even if everybody knows it full well. 

Along the way, I have a chance to examine some of the berms. The 
mounds appear uniform, about eight feet in diameter, two feet at the crown, 
and perfectly circular. However, each features its own flower, identified by 
a small brass plaque at the base, much like the labeling in Plutarch’s 
mansion. Since this is the Gamemakers’ garden, probably isn’t wise to trust 
it, but I read the plaques anyway, hoping for clues. Crocus, tiger lily, pansy. 
I try not to think what lies beneath some of them, waiting to attack me. 

One catches my attention: GAs PLANT. The Covey’s yard has a 
wondrous hodgepodge of flowering plants, dug up from the woods over the 
years and bedded down in front of their house with no apparent rhyme or 
reason. From late March to November, you can count on at least one flower 
or bush being in bloom, and Lenore Dove generally wears a few blossoms 
in her hair when she performs. Never from the gas plant, though. “Too 
dangerous,” she told me, and then demonstrated why, touching a lit match 
to a stalk of pale purple flowers. A whoosh of flame followed, and then 
disappeared just as quick, leaving the flowers unharmed. “Imagine if that 
happened on my head!” she said with a laugh. 

Using shreds of cardboard from my egg carton, I get a small flame 
going pretty quick. I coax it along by feeding it pine needles and twigs until 
I’ve got a proper fire. Almost no smoke, so I keep it alive with infusions of 
dry wood. About an hour passes before I have enough ashes to bake the 
potatoes. I lay three in the coals and settle down to wait. 

A distant boom alerts me to the fact that another tribute has died. 
Twenty-one gone now, twenty-seven left. Career? Newcomer? I’ve no way 
of knowing until tonight. 

When the potatoes get soft, 1 wake Lou Lou, and we make quick work 
of them and a couple more eggs. I feel loads better, like the rest of the 
poison has been absorbed, and she’s bright-eyed after her nap. I consider 
dousing the fire but decide my water’s too costly, so I leave it to smolder, a 
thing Hattie would never allow. Fire is catching, she’d say, but if this one 
burns down the arena, I say good riddance. 

I’m more optimistic after my success with the flint striker. Now on to 
find my berm. They’re so numerous that I can’t imagine every single one of 
them conceals a mutt portal that connects to a Sub-A tunnel. Beetee said, 


“Do your best to locate a mutt portal by tracking returning mutts after an 
attack.” Since I haven’t identified any mutts yet, I keep working my way 
north to find likely candidates. 

Lou Lou thinks we’re looking for her snake, which holds her attention 
and keeps her trotting ahead of me at a reasonable pace. As we move north, 
I almost forget about her, preoccupied with checking our surroundings for 
dangers and reviewing my bomb-setting techniques from 12. Fire to fuse, 
fuse to blasting cap, blasting cap to explosive — 

Her squeal of delight snaps me back to the arena. She darts for a 
nearby berm covered with scarlet flowers. I don’t know why this one, since 
she’s viewed the others with indifference. I chase after her, but she reaches 
the hillock first, plowing into the greenery, crushing handfuls of the leaves 
and burying her face in the red blossoms. I spot the nameplate and relax a 
bit. I know this plant, recognize the faint minty scent. I’ve even helped 
Burdock gather some for Asterid to make into medicines at the apothecary 
shop. Bee balm. A healing plant. It grows wild in our mountains and Lou 
Lou clearly recognizes it as well. 

The seeded bread, the candle smoke, and now these flowers — all of 
them must transport Lou Lou back home somehow. Mamaw said that 
smells stick in your memory the strongest, more than sounds or sights. 
Didn’t the bean and ham hock soup take me back to 12? 

Lou Lou’s breathing so deep she’s starting to gasp and, good 
memories or no, I decide it’s time to pull her out of there. I drop my stuff on 
the ground and I’ve just wrapped my arms around her middle when the 
coughing begins. After I haul her off the berm, she sits back on her heels 
and makes a choking sound. A yellow pollen coats her from head to toe 
and, thinking she’s allergic to the bee balm, I dampen her handkerchief and 
begin to wipe her down. 

“Just breathe, Lou Lou,” I say soothingly. “They’re only flowers.” But 
nothing’s only anything in this arena, and when the blood begins running 
from her eyes, her nose, her mouth, the last reminding me of our dear 
president, I know I’m wrong. 

“Lou Lou?” I cry. “Lou Lou, hold on!” 

She collapses against me, and I cradle her in my arms as the 
convulsions begin. There is nothing I can do but watch, helpless again. Just 
as I was to save Louella. For a moment, the two merge, Lou Lou and 


Louella. She’s just one pigtailed kid I’ve known her whole life, and I would 
do anything to spare her this. 

Her skin begins to turn blue. “Enough,” I beg the Gamemakers. They 
could end this with a touch of a button. Knock her out as they did at the 
interview, this time sending a lethal dose of sedative through her pump. 
Spare her this torturous death. But her agony continues, filling me with 
fury. “Enough!” I scream. “She is not your plaything!” 

My fingers find the pump hidden under her shirt and lock around it. 
With one powerful yank, I free her. 


> 


The cannon fires to confirm her death as her body goes limp. 
Whoever Lou Lou was, she’s moved on. Her slight, starved frame lies quiet, 
finally beyond the Capitol’s reach. I lean down and whisper into her bad 
ear. A personal message to the Gamemakers. “You did this to her. This is 
who you are.” And then for Lou Lou, I say the thing she no longer can. 
“Murderers.” 

In answer, a hovercraft appears, waiting for me to step aside so it can 
collect her body. 

Lou Lou won’t be on the hill with me and Louella. They can’t send 
back two bodies to District 12 without exposing their incompetence. So 
where will you go, little girl? Back to 11? Into Capitol soil? Or will they 
incinerate your body and leave no trace of you behind? Either way, mine 
will be the last touch of someone who cares about you. 

The thought of Capitol hands disposing of her infuriates me. And like 
my Louella, I cannot give her up without a fight. I lift her into my arms and 
head into an area of the densest trees I can spot. Are they showing me to the 
audience? Can they witness my refusal to hand over Lou Lou? Do I have 
the Capitol viewers glued to the screen? The rascal has run off with his 


district partner — again! The rascal will make the Gamemakers chase him 
down! Delighted laughter, phone calls to friends, are you watching this? 

Lou Lou’s body’s noticeably lighter than Louella’s. The ferocity that 
gave her weight has vanished. I locate a clump of willows and hunker down 
in the center, catching glimpses of the hovercraft overhead. A claw 
descends, tangles in the treetops, withdraws, and makes a second attempt. 
They can’t reach us. For the moment she’s safe. 

As my breathing calms, I realize I’m playing right into Snow’s hands. 
This is exactly the behavior I’ve been forbidden to engage in, and there will 
be repercussions. Deadly ones. Soon. And I will have lost my chance to 
blow up the tank. How to salvage this moment? Take Lou Lou out and give 
them a rascally “just kidding” wave? Set her down and run and hide? Just 
stay put and wait for the claw to break through and then helpfully place her 
in its jaws? 

Indecision immobilizes me. The Gamemakers seem immobilized as 
well. The hovercraft remains static, claw retracted. A standoff. We are 
waiting each other out. It would be peaceful if not for the looming sense of 
danger. 

It comes in the form of a brilliant blue butterfly. Almost the same 
electric blue of District 3’s outfits. It navigates the willow tree branches and 
lights on a nearby bough. I can’t seem to tear my eyes from the pattern of 
tiny golden lightning bolts decorating its wings. Then another lands over 
my head. And a third, on the back of the hand that cradles Lou Lou’s blood- 
streaked face. As if in slow motion, a stinger descends, a tiny spark jumps 
off my flesh as it makes contact, and a jolt of pain blinds me. An 
involuntary scream parts my lips, Lou Lou has tumbled to the ground. My 
vision returns in time for me to see a second butterfly come for my face. 
My cheek explodes with what I can now recognize as an electric shock, as 
if the butterflies have mini tasers in their stingers. One of Snow’s beauties. 

Raw panic consumes me; all I know is I never want to be stung again. 
I burst out of the willow bower, leaving Lou Lou to the Gamemakers. 
Hundreds of butterflies, dotting the trees, come to life and target me. I sprint 
into the woods, oblivious to all but escape, but they swarm after me. Not 
with the drunken motion I associate with the butterflies back home, but in a 
straight line. I’m bobbing and weaving, trying to evade them, but they keep 
landing stings, each one momentarily freezing me. It isn’t enough to have 


left Lou Lou; these things are bent on torturing me. This is about 
punishment. As public as possible. 

I’m not really sure how long this goes on, seems endless, like I’m 
losing my sanity, when I fall face-first into a berm of flowers. Afraid of Lou 
Lou’s fate, I spring up, toppling into a heap beside the berm, frantically 
wiping my face. But it’s not the bee balm, it’s the gas plants. As a cloud of 
butterflies descends, I get an idea. After retrieving my flint striker and rock 
from my pocket, I start making some sparks of my own, sending showers of 
them into the blossoms. Five-foot flames erupt off the plants, engulfing the 
butterflies and lapping at my chest, before disappearing. My shirt front 
glows for a few moments, like a bed of coals, then returns to black, 
apparently fireproof. A few crispy skeletons float down, but the attack has 
ended. The stragglers loopily fly away, the picture of innocence. 

I lie gasping on the ground, examining my body for wounds. There’s 
absolutely nothing — not a blister, not a scratch. Only the memory of the 
terrible pain. I press my lips to the flint striker, hoping Lenore Dove sees 
me, knows this is a thank-you to her for saving me from the mutts. 

The mutts! This is it! This is my chance to follow them to their berm! 
However, I don’t jump up; the recent attack has zapped some sense into me. 
For once in your life, be smart, I think. Do this, but do not jeopardize the 
arena plan. Why would I possibly be chasing mutt butterflies? Only one 
answer: retaliation. 

A nearby branch caught fire when the gas plants blazed. I break it 
from the tree and take off in the general direction of the butterflies. When I 
catch a glimpse of blue, I know I’m on the right course. Another twenty 
yards of charging through the woods brings me to a berm covered in 
flowering bushes. It has slid open as if on tracks, leaving a six-foot-wide 
gulf right down the middle of the circle. The butterflies make their lazy way 
into it. For the benefit of the Gamemakers, I rage at them, swinging my 
torch around madly, incinerating a half dozen or so when I notice the berm 
beginning to slide closed. As if in a last-ditch effort, I lunge at the final mutt 
and succeed in wedging the branch between the lips of the hatch. It clamps 
shut, crushing the wood but leaving an eighth-of-an-inch opening in the 
seam. I pretend not to notice and slump down next to the berm. The sign 
reads BUTTERFLY BUSH. Well, I won’t forget that one. 


I think about going back to look for Lou Lou, but I know she’s long 
gone. Instead, I make my way back to the bee balm, careful not to inhale 
too deeply, and collect my things. Still no sign of anyone else. 

My skin may be as smooth as a baby’s behind, but I’m twitchy from 
the multiple shocks and done in for the day. I’ve achieved my two tasks, 
though: making fire and finding a mutt berm. The shadows are growing 
long, which means I need to start searching for somewhere to sleep, 
conscious that my piss-poor hiding place from last night must be improved 
upon. I’m not dizzy now, so I pick a sizable tree with thick foliage near the 
butterfly bush and climb about thirty feet into the branches. I pitch my 
hammock between two sturdy limbs, making sure that if one side gives 
way, I’ll have a fork to catch me. This wasn’t recommended in the class, but 
I don’t feel secure enough to sleep at ground level again. Famished, I eat 
three eggs and a couple of apples. Surely, sponsors will enable my mentors 
to replenish my pantry soon. Through the trees, the sunset glows golden, 
then the orange of burning coal, before fading out, leaving me in darkness. 

At the sound of the anthem, I position myself to get a clear view of 
the sky. The first tribute. More snot green. The boy from District 1 who 
isn’t Panache. Then Lou Lou, pictured with her snake. I wonder if, 
anywhere in Panem, a family member or playmate recognizes her for who 
she really is. The McCoys must know she’s a fake. Surely, they do. Right 
now, they must be weeping and wondering where their own darling girl has 
gone. At least that’s one terrible conversation I’ve been spared. 

Five Careers gone. Seventeen Newcomers. Twenty-six of us left. 

The woods quiet down. A clear yellow moonlight filters through the 
trees. Honestly, I think I’m the only one on this side of the arena, but you 
never know. I wonder how Maysilee’s doing — just the two of us left from 
12 now — and if there’s any chance I might see her again. Funny missing 
Maysilee Donner, but there it is. 

Grateful I don’t snore, I let myself fall into a dreamless sleep. 

Something startles me awake, and I see a parachute with a good-sized 
bundle caught in the sunlit branches above my head. My first sponsor’s gift. 
I untangle it, set it on my lap, take a deep breath — right now it could hold 
anything! — and then open it. A dozen white rolls still warm from the oven, 
a block of orange cheese, and what looks like a bottle of wine, complete 
with its own long-stemmed glass goblet. This actually coaxes a smile from 


me. I uncork the bottle and take a sniff. Grape juice. Bet this cost someone a 
pretty penny. Water would’ve been more sensible, since I’m about through 
my first gallon, but I’m not complaining. Grape juice is a big treat back 
home, reserved for birthdays and wedding punch. Who sent it? The lady 
with the cat ears? The man I spit on? Great-Aunt Messalina? Right now, I 
don’t even care. 

I tip the bottle over my elegant glass, admiring it as the juice fills the 
stem, then the bowl. Giving the audience a knowing grin, I raise it in a toast 
and say, “Thank you, my fellow rascals from the Capitol!” Then I take a 
slow sip, easing my parched mouth. It’s so full of goodness, not just the 
taste but the happy memories it conjures up, that I have to keep myself from 
gulping it down. Accompanied by a couple of fresh rolls and a chunk of 
fatty cheese, it restores me enough to face the day. 

While I breakfast, I review why, from the Capitol sponsors’ 
perspective, I think I’ve earned this expensive gift. I evaded the bloodbath 
with supplies and weapons, I survived poisoning, I made fire, cooked food, 
torched some butterflies, and found a tree to sleep in. Conclusion: I’m fairly 
resourceful and clearly selfish enough to win. 

I’m worried that the districts have a low opinion of me for abandoning 
the Newcomers. Trying to save Lou Lou might’ve helped. And if I blow up 
the arena, I guess I’Il be welcome back in 12 again. Not that going home is 
a possibility. Still, I want Sid to be able to hold his head up, not be ashamed 
of me forever. 

Since I’ve made camp near my berm, there’s no point in traveling 
anywhere. Nothing to do but wait for Ampert to arrive with his token fuse 
and the District 9 sunflower explosive. I’m pretty worn out from Days 1 
and 2 of the Games, so I just hang out in my hammock, keeping an eye out 
for butterflies. By early afternoon, I begin to get restless. We should have 
worked up a better rendezvous plan. The woods are deep and wide; we 
could easily miss each other. Far north could still be miles away. Something 
to remember when I get down in that tunnel. I may still have a long way to 
go before I reach the tank. 

I decide to go look for Ampert. 

As I pack up my supplies, carefully wrapping my goblet in the 
hammock, I come upon the binoculars and try them out. That inspires me to 
climb higher and get a better sense of the lay of the land. Near the tippy-top 


of the tree, which towers over most, I can see a great distance. I’m again 
struck by the beauty of the place, the idyllic woods, the uniform sweep of 
meadow, the snowcapped peak which now sits under the arch of a 
shimmering rainbow. I judge the mountain to be about five or six miles 
away. That’s where the rest of the kids are presumably hunting one another 
down. So different from here, where I’m purely up against the 
Gamemakers. The sea of trees continues behind me, but seems to narrow to 
a point in the distance. It’s impossible to tell exactly how far away that is, 
since everything starts to look a little blurry. Does that indicate it’s the end 
of the arena? 

I twist back around to view the meadow again and catch sight of a bit 
of electric blue near the Cornucopia moving toward the woods. Ampert? 
Worried I will miss him among the trees, I climb down and head for the 
meadow, hoping to intercept him. Along the way, I cut small, discreet 
notches in the bases of trees with my knife, leaving markers for my return. 
Backtracking takes me farther from my target, but I’1] need Ampert with 
me, one way or the other. 

When I reach the tree line, I climb onto a rock and survey the meadow 
through my binoculars. It’s Ampert, all right, about a mile away, tromping 
toward me. The expression on his face, so grim and sad, forged by the last 
few horrific days, reminds me that I’ve had it easier than most. Around his 
neck I spy two sunflower tokens, one stained with blood. At least he’s been 
spared watching his own district mates’ deaths, since none have appeared in 
the sky. I bet he hasn’t had much to eat and I’ need him on his toes for the 
tank bombing. .. . Should I make some sandwiches? 

Wait a minute. ... Once again, what am I doing? Why has the rascal, 
after running away from the Newcomers, caught sight of Ampert and 
returned to the edge of the woods? This is different from Lou Lou; she 
found me. My behavior sure seems suspicious. Like I’ve been waiting for 
him the whole time. I don’t think this will matter to the audience, but what 
are the Gamemakers going to make of it? I told them I was only out for 
myself. What could have drawn me back to Ampert? The answer can’t be 
explosives. What would extend my survival? I’ve got my own food and 
water and charcoal tablets and weapons — what can Ampert offer me? 

The one thing I don’t have much of is information. I know who’s 
dead... but who killed them and how? What weapons arm the Careers? 


Have they discovered anything to eat and drink in here that isn’t poisonous? 
Except for Lou Lou, I’ve been alone, and she wasn’t exactly a wealth of 
information. 

Okay, then. This rascal wants an update. 

Cocky. Out for myself. Sarcastic. Nice to the other Newcomers. I’m 
channeling all these things so I can present a consistent character to the 
audience, but when Ampert arrives, he throws his arms around me and I just 
hug him back and say, “Hey, buddy.” I’m surprised by how small he feels, 
because he’s such a take-charge kind of kid. But he’s only about Sid’s size 
and plenty scared. Even the brightest brain can’t think its way out of being 
trapped in the arena. 

“The Newcomers need you back,” he says. “They sent me to find 
you.” 

Good. That’s why the Gamemakers will think he’s here. 

“We talked about this. My scoring a one makes me dangerous to be 
around,” I say for the audience’s benefit. I don’t want my gifts to dry up 
because I’m shirking my Newcomer duties. Also, Sid needs to hear my 
motive for ditching them. 

“Lou Lou ran off. Then we saw her in the sky.” 

“Case in point,” I say, stepping back from him. “She found me, and 
she’s dead now. We didn’t see the poison flowers coming.” 

“Those are poisonous, too?” he asks. 

“At least the bee balm. The gas plants came in handy when I needed 
to barbeque some butterfly mutts. The Gamemakers sent those after me. 
You hungry?” He nods vigorously. “How about a trade? Some lunch for a 
mountain update?” 

I spread out a big picnic on the rock: rolls, cheese, eggs, apples, and a 
wineglass of grape juice for him. I don’t interrupt as he wolfs the food 
down, pretty sure he hasn’t eaten much in here. He doesn’t even have a 
pack of supplies, just an ax in his belt and a sunhat made of leaves. When 
he finishes, he wipes his mouth and sighs. “I wish I could’ve shared that 
with the others. The Careers got most of the food.” 

“How are you guys holding up?” I ask. 

“It’s tough. We’ve lost seventeen now. All but Lou Lou at the 
bloodbath.” 

“Nobody got poisoned?” 


“Oh, several of us did. But Wellie figured out about everything being 
poisonous almost immediately. And Hull’s pack had a big bottle of the 
syrup antidote. None of us died from poison.” 

“Syrup? I had these.” I pull out the tablets and show him. “Else I’d be 
gone, too.” 

“Must’ve been bad. No one to look after you.” 

I shrug. Then I have to ask. “Wyatt?” 

Ampert reaches into his pocket and passes me Wyatt’s token. 
“Panache killed him. And five others. With a sword. Maritte’s wicked with 
the trident. Silka used an ax, it’s sharp as arazor, andI saw... .” His voice 
chokes off. 

“T get the picture. Maysilee’s okay, though, right?” 

“T don’t know. She got separated from us during the bloodbath. 
Haven’t seen her in the sky, though. I’m guessing she’s still on the 
mountain, same as the rest of the Newcomers. We’ve been trying to stick 
together, like we planned. The Careers followed us there.” 

A despicable thought crosses my mind, that Maysilee has somehow 
joined up with the Careers. Then I remember how combative she was with 
Silka from the first encounter and feel ashamed of myself. I examine the 
necklace she wove to securely carry Wyatt’s scrip coin. She spent most of 
her training hours helping the Newcomers display their tokens with pride, 
when she could have been learning skills to protect herself. Whatever else 
she may be, Maysilee Donner is not a turncoat. 

I tell Ampert, “Wherever she is, she’s making trouble for the Careers. 
You can count on that.” When I hook Wyatt’s token around my neck, it’s 
like having both him and Maysilee with me. 

For a while, Ampert and I just sit there, letting the breeze cool us, 
staring at the ridiculously pretty, flower-scented meadow, listening to the 
songbirds. I pour another glass of juice, which we pass between us. Every 
sense is being catered to, every element designed to soothe. We’re 
cocooned in soft pleasures as we face our deaths. 

“So you won’t come back?” Ampert asks. 

“Tt wouldn’t help. ’'m a mutt magnet. And clearly no judge of 
flowers.” 

“Can you show me around the woods at least? We need to get off that 
mountain, but no one knows if it’s worse here.” 


“Tf that’s what you want. But I can’t promise to keep you safe from 
the Gamemakers.” 

Ampert laughs a bit. “What a funny thing to say. Who could?” 

When we finish the juice, I lead him into the woods. My giving him 
the tour is the perfect cover story, really. Not that he gets much information 
besides “Watch out for the stream — it’s poisonous. And the fruit. And 
those flowers over there, too.” Basically, I could’ve just said everything’s 
poisonous and left it at that. But I play the guide. I show him the berms with 
the bee balm and the gas plants, saving the butterfly bush for last. “This 
here’s where the butterflies went. The ones I didn’t burn to a crisp.” 

I see him eye the branch, but he only says, “Do you think it’s safe to 
be near their home?” 

Home. He calls it their home. Is it because he misses his own so 
much? Twelve years old. . . barely five feet tall . . . his voice still hasn’t 
even changed. If I’m homesick, what must it be like for him? 

“Well, I don’t really think anybody much is at home,” I say. “There 
weren’t many left. No more than we can handle. And they don’t kill you 
when they sting, just give you a nasty shock. I had dozens and I’m fine. So 
it’s probably safer than a lot of places, since they tend to space the mutts 
out.” Do they? Maybe. But at least it explains why we should hang around 
the berm. 

“Could I rest here a bit, do you think?” 

I look at his puffy eyes. “Sure. I don’t really have any plans this 
afternoon.” I make him a bed out of my hammock and he tosses a bit, then 
drifts off to sleep. Looking at him, I can’t help thinking that all the little 
ones seem to end up with me. Louella. Lou Lou. Ampert. I can’t keep a one 
of them safe. Why do they flock to me? 

When Ampert’s settled into a deep slumber, I begin my preparations 
for the bombing, gathering double the wood and pine needles I did 
yesterday. This will be a nighttime job, and the fire’s my responsibility, both 
for illumination and ignition. Since my butterfly torch held up pretty well, I 
make sure and break off a few more branches from what I judge to be the 
same kind of tree. Not wanting to waste my fuel, I set up the fire site, but 
hold off on lighting it. No potatoes tonight. I’ll leave them for Ampert, who 
stands a better chance of surviving our mission. 


If I do this thing right, blow open the tank and set off a flood, likely it 
will take me out. I mean, six feet of fuse does not allow for much of an 
escape window. If the explosion doesn’t finish me off, surely the water will. 
I console myself with the thought that either of those deaths will be far 
kinder than anything the Capitol will devise for me if I somehow make it 
out of Sub-A alive. 

Hoping for something better could be dangerous; it could blind me to 
the reality of my situation. I remember how Mamaw always said, “Where 
there’s life, there’s hope.” But from where I’m sitting, hope seems a lot like 
white liquor. It can fool you in the short run, but like as not, you’|l end up 
paying for it twice. 


> 


When evening falls, I go ahead and start the fire. Ampert wakes and 
we toast bread and cheese, then eat it with apples. He says he doesn’t want 
to go back to the Newcomers in the dark and we plan for him to stay the 
night. In the flickering flames, I remember how my shirt didn’t so much as 
char in the gas plant blaze. Ampert pulls off one of his socks and dips it in 
the fire, where it glows for quite a while before the toes begin to melt. 
Seems like a clue. Perhaps it’s protective, but from what? I’ve only 
encountered one gas plant berm. The clothing suggests any number of 
things could burn. 

As if inspired by the cookfire, Ampert says he’d like to try and catch 
something to eat to repay me for the food. His token has gotten tangled up 
with the two District 9 sunflowers, so he removes all three at once and lays 
them on the ground. He separates his fuse and says, “I might be able to 
fashion a snare from this. But do you think the animals are poisonous?” 

“Maybe not the rabbits,” I tell him. “I watched one die from drinking 
water — it seemed as susceptible as we are. Of course, they could be 
carrying rabbit fever.” 

“What’s that?” 


“Sickness. You don’t want it. But if we cook it through, it might be 
safe.” All of this is just chatter meant to mislead the Gamemakers. We’re 
not trapping rabbits. Or cooking their meat. Or even counting on being here 
for breakfast. “Worth a try.” 

Ampert begins to unweave his token, simultaneously winding the 
black fuse around his hand. When he reaches the end, he surreptitiously 
tucks something that must be the blasting cap in the coils. “I'll give it a go 
in the morning. You can keep anything it catches.” His eyes fall on the 
sunflowers. “Do you want a sunflower? I bet Nine would like you to wear 
one. You’re the reason they were in the alliance.” 

“Tt was really Maysilee who won them over,” I respond. “You 
should’ve seen them stand up to Panache. Thought he was doing them some 
big favor letting them join the Careers, and they shut him down like that.” I 
snap my fingers and smile at the memory. “Yeah, I’ll wear one. They were 
good allies.” I hang the bloodstained sunflower around my neck. 

The anthem begins, but no faces appear tonight. 

“Still twenty-six of us,” I say. 

Ampert wraps his arms around his knees. “Can we stay by the fire 
awhile? I don’t like the dark.” 

Even though we need the fire for the plot, this rings true. Ampert puts 
on a brave face, but I can imagine what images haunt him after the 
bloodbath. “We can sleep here if you want. I don’t think the tree will work 
for both of us. We can take turns being on watch,” I tell him. “Go ahead and 
rest some more.” 

“Can I have some water?” 

I give him the full jug and he downs a few swigs. 

“Wake me when you’ve had enough,” says Ampert. “I'll be ready.” 
He takes a final mouthful of water and lies down. 

He’s leaving it to me to call the shots. “Okay,” I say. “Sweet dreams.” 
In a few minutes, he’s either sleeping or making a good show of it. I keep 
guard, my spear resting on my knees, waiting for its big moment when I use 
it to pry open the berm. I’m glad that’s its job, instead of taking someone’s 
life. If I make it out of the Games without killing anybody, that will be a 
victory in itself. 

I say my good-byes to those I love. Burdock and Blair. Hattie. Ma and 
Sid. And finally, Lenore Dove, my rare and radiant girl. I try not to be 


scared. I tell myself that everybody has to die sometime, and my number’s 
up. In a way, it’s a comfort that a bunch of people I know have gone before 
me. Pa and Mamaw and the twins and Louella and Wyatt and Lou Lou and 
a lot of the Newcomers. Maybe Lenore Dove’s right, and I will meet up 
with them, and one day with her, in another world. Or maybe there’s just 
nothing, in which case, it won’t hurt any. Mostly, I just don’t know. 

The darkness deepens, the air cools, and when I think it’s past 
midnight and the audience has gone to bed, leaving a handful of 
Gamemakers to mind the show, I light a torch branch. Crouching down, I 
tap Ampert on the shoulder and say softly, “Hey, buddy, let’s beat those 
odds.” 

Ampert jumps to his feet immediately, thrusting the coiled fuse into 
my hand. “You’ll have sixty seconds,” he whispers. This is followed by the 
explosive, which feels soft and sticky like putty and has been shaped into a 
block. That last mouthful of water was put to good use. I pocket the 
materials and without further conversation, we cross to the berm. He holds 
the torch while I drive the tip of my spear into the crack held by the branch 
that I left behind yesterday. Using my full body weight for leverage, I pry 
the sides of the berm apart. The mouth yawns, then begins to slide closed, 
but not before I wedge the spear between the lips, holding the hatch open 
wide. To one side, a utility ladder runs down into the depths. 

A mechanical buzz of protest comes from below. 

Ampert passes me the torch. “I’ll be here.” 

He looks so young, standing there in the flickering light, armed only 
with an ax I doubt he’s strong enough to wield. I slide my knife into his 
belt, muss his hair like I do Sid’s, and say, “Best ally ever.” He gives me a 
lopsided grin and I hop onto the ladder. Torch in one hand, I begin my 
descent. My feet feel stiff and clumsy on the thin rungs. “Right, left, right, 
left,” I instruct them. Five, ten, twenty feet down and I land on concrete in a 
narrow hallway and turn to my right, which seems in the northerly 
direction. I trot along with the help of my torch and the dim utility lights 
that glow along the side of the floor. 

I haven’t gone far when I realize the internal wall on my left is not a 
wall at all. Metal... ribbed... every few feet, a water droplet, shaped like 
a tear, has been stamped at about eye level. This must be the side of the 
water tank, and it’s indeed massive, running from the concrete floor twenty 


feet up to the ceiling. The droplets stretch as far as I can see in either 
direction. What could they possibly need this much water for? Do they 
intend to turn the entire arena into a lake? I hesitate, trying to assess the 
most effective point to place the explosive. Then I give up and slap it a few 
feet below the droplet right in front of me. What does it matter, really, 
where the tank is damaged? With a flick of my wrist, I unfurl the fuse and 
slide it through my fingers, smudging them with black, until they find the 
blasting cap. Lucky I paid attention in class. I place the cap in the explosive 
and steel myself. No time like the present. I dip my torch to the end of the 
fuse, watch the flame eat through the first inches, leaving only the faintest 
trace of ash, and run like hell. Sixty seconds and counting. 

One hundred one, one hundred two, one hundred three . . . I track the 
time in my head as my feet pound down the concrete. The ladder comes 
into view and I fling my branch aside, as it’s slowing me down and I trust 
that Ampert will be waiting at the top with a second torch. I know it might 
be wiser to embrace my death now, but there’s something in a person that 
wants to live. Even if it’s only for a few more hours. One hundred twenty, 
one hundred twenty-one . .. Besides, there is Ampert to think about. I may 
still be able to offer him some protection. 

I hear them before I see them. A delicate chirping sound, not unlike a 
bird, overlaid with occasional squeaks. Whatever they are, they don’t sound 
threatening. I’m more perplexed than alarmed. Perhaps a flock of songbirds 
has escaped and flies free in Sub-A, like the birds do in the rafters of the 
chariot horse stable. As my hands hit the first rung of the ladder, I look up 
in time to catch sight of Ampert’s face lit by torchlight. Then a swirl of 
color obscures his image and spirals down at me. 

Transparent wings tinted every color of the rainbow flash above me. 
They catch the firelight, making them shine like the hard candy in the 
Donners’ shop window on a sunny day. It’d be something to admire, except 
each three-foot-wide pair of wings carries a vicious face and two back feet 
sporting four-inch curved claws. Genetically engineered bat muttations. 
Designed to shred me to slaw. 

These creatures haven’t broken out of a cage; they’re a gift from the 
Capitol. 

One hundred thirty-six, one hundred thirty-seven — 

“Haymitch!” I hear Ampert cry out. “Catch!” 


He releases the torch, which scatters the bat formation for a second, 
and I somehow manage to grab it. With my free hand, I begin to scale the 
ladder, waving the fire above my head. But these are no butterflies, simple 
to ignite and destroy; they are sinewy mammals that can turn on a dime. 
They evade my torch and begin to claw me, taking painful swipes at my 
shoulders and back, causing blood to flow. Climb I must, though, because 
the clock’s ticking and if I’m not aboveground, I’1l be drowned for sure. 

I’m not going to make it. I’ve lost count, but I’m thinking at any 
moment that tank will blow and there will be nowhere for that water to go 
but into this hallway. I take a final swing at the bats, solidly connecting with 
the one with its claws sunk into my thigh, and hurl the torch at their evil 
faces. My fingers fumble for my belt, unhook the interlocking rings, wrap 
the belt around a ladder rail, and secure the clasp. I throw my arms around 
the ladder, brace my legs, and hang on for dear life, filling my lungs with 
deep breaths. About five seconds and three bat scratches later, deafened by 
squeaks and hisses, I think I’ve made a mistake. I’ve bungled setting the 
explosive, or the cap was a dud, or a Gamemaker has arrived in time to 
yank the fuse from the putty — 

An earsplitting blast almost knocks me off the ladder and I’m totally 
submerged in water. Icy-cold blackness engulfs me, rips one arm free. 
Without the belt, I’d be a goner, but somehow, I regain my grip and cling to 
the bars with every limb, eyes closed tight against the flood. After what 
seems like forever, the current eases enough for me to pop open my belt and 
continue my ascent. By this point, the burning in my lungs has pushed all 
other fears into the background. Legs floating free, I drag myself up the 
ladder. I’m about to black out when my face breaks through the surface. 
Between great gasps of air, I choke and gag up the bucket of water that 
managed to force its way in, despite my best efforts. 

The good news is that the bats have disappeared, hopefully drowned 
in the initial wave. Also, the water lacks the metallic taste of the stream. I’m 
thinking they didn’t bother to poison that colossal tankful, but targeted the 
streams individually, so my mutt wounds have been washed clean safely. 
Glass half-full. 

When I get my breathing and shivers in check, I call for Ampert. 
Above me, in the dim light of the fake moon, I can see the spear still 
propping open the berm, but no sign of him. Something isn’t right. He 


wouldn’t leave me to fend for myself. When the wave came, did the bats 
have time to escape through the berm and attack him? It seems unlikely that 
even they could fly that swiftly, as the water came almost simultaneously 
with the boom. Then what has happened to him? Careers? Gamemaker 
attacks? 

I scale the ladder as fast as my frozen muscles will allow. As I reach 
the surface of the arena, I survey the woods, softly glowing in the mix of 
moon and firelight. Our campsite remains as we left it, with my pack and 
the rumpled hammock on the ground. No sign of Ampert, but no sign of a 
struggle either. What has led him to abandon his post? 

I wrench the spear from the berm. The lips try to close, but damage 
has occurred, and they end in a sort of floral leer. I call softly, “Ampert? 
Ampert?” No response. 

My hearing’s funny from either the water or the blast, but a sound 
reaches my ears, only just distinguishable from the usual nighttime hum of 
the forest. Animal, but distinct from the bats. Not chirping but chattering, 
coming from multiple mouths. I grab the hammock, wrapping it around my 
left forearm, thinking a net might come in handy, and creep toward the 
chatter. The sound intensifies, making my skin crawl, but I push forward 
until I break into a small circular clearing. 

The trees buzz with life. I make out the hundreds of squirrel-like 
creatures, Swarming around in their gorgeous golden coats, their eyes 
shining as if lit from within. Cute in a way, but too hyper, bouncing from 
branch to branch, gnashing their long rectangular front teeth in agitation. 
Mutts. They only pause to emit piercing rodent screams at a mound of their 
comrades in the center of the clearing. The boldest are fighting viciously, 
throwing themselves onto the heap, kicking one another away with 
powerful hindquarters. One flies through the air and lands at my feet. 
Before it springs back up, I spy a bloody scrap of electric-blue fabric 
snagged on its incisors, and everything becomes clear. Carnivorous mutts. 
Tearing Ampert apart. 

I promised Beetee I would not let him suffer. Flinging my hammock 
to its full length, I holler and lunge for the pile. The hammock snares the 
furry bodies, and I jerk it toward me, succeeding in unseating a layer or two 
of mutts. Then I flip around my spear to use as a club and swing it across 
the mound again and again, sweeping the squirrels away. I prepare myself 


for their attack, for the inevitable tearing of my flesh, but nothing happens. 
The moment one’s knocked free of the mound, it dives back in. These are 
programmed for Ampert, and Ampert alone. His look, his smell, his taste. 

I am losing, I am losing the fight, I am losing him. I know this, but 
there’s nothing to do but keep swinging. I never even get a glimpse of 
Ampert, just writhing furry bodies fighting for a piece of him. Finally, as if 
someone blew a whistle, audible only to them, hundreds of heads pop up 
and turn in unison toward an unseen master. A mad dash ensues, and in 
seconds the squirrels have vanished into the foliage. 

Panting, I watch them fade away. Then I turn back to what I am meant 
to witness. A small white skeleton, stripped clean to the bone. No flesh or 
clothing remains, only an ax at its right side, my knife at its left. My lips 
move, but no sound comes out. “Buddy?” I stumble forward, spotting his 
tracker, wedged just below his elbow. There is no one to comfort, to ease 
out of this world. Ampert’s been swallowed up by the Capitol, and his 
coffin will hold only these pearly white bones. 

A cannon fires. 

Somewhere, Beetee’s heart breaks into fragments so small it can 
never be repaired. Mine pounds like a drum as a wave of rage surges into it. 
My head drops back and I emit a howl that bounces off the fake sky and 
echoes around the arena. I want to kill them all, Snow, the Gamemakers, 
every person in the Capitol who has been party to this atrocity. But they are 
safely out of reach, so I drop my spear, grab the ax, and begin to chop away 
at the arena, determined to take it apart, piece by piece — the trees, the 
berry bushes, the birds’ nests — as inhuman sounds roar out of me. 

I am hacking a berm of bluebells to bits when the earth begins to 
shake so violently that I’m thrown from my feet onto a bank of moss. My 
fingers dig into the stuff, and I hold my position as branches and debris rain 
down on me. When the earth settles, I scream at the sky, “Ha! You missed!” 
I spring to my feet and start careening through the trees like a wild man. 
“I'm still here! I’m still here!” 

When I stagger onto our campsite, I catch sight of the berm and 
realize that something much bigger than targeting me is happening. The 
mouth opens and closes spasmodically, sending bursts of blossoms into the 
air. In the trees behind it, a herd of adorable baby deer runs around in a 
frenzy, rearing up to show spiked hooves slashing viciously at the air. An 


apple tree has transformed into a fountain of blue sparks, and clouds of 
steam rise from a nearby stream. Everything’s taken on an eerie, dreamlike 
quality. Either the arena’s malfunctioning or I’ve been licking toads. 

Half afraid to hope, I slowly raise my eyes upward to see the night 
sky, which cuts in and out like bad television reception. A burst of static 
dazzles, then suddenly, I’m looking straight up at the real sky. A gush of 
fresh air fills my lungs, and moonlight illuminates the chaos. It worked! We 
have done it! Me and Ampert and Beetee and District 9 and a slew of 
people I’ve never heard of — we have drowned the brain! We have broken 
the arena! 

This is my poster. Right here. I give a wild victory cry and spin 
around shouting, “Did you all want a party? I’ll give you a party!” 

Lightning flashes, a clap of thunder booms. I dance around the berm, 
bellowing the first thing that comes to mind for all of Panem to hear. A 
song too dangerous to sing — 


They hang the man and flog the woman 
Who steals the goose from off the common, 
Yet let the greater villain loose 

That steals the common from the goose. 


I extend my arms to the stars, Sid’s stars, all of our stars. 


The law locks up the man or woman 

Who steals the goose from off the common. 
And geese will still a common lack 

Till they go and steal it back. 


I jump up and down hollering, “We got it back! We’re getting it 
back!” 

Finally, I drop to my knees, arch my back, stretch out my arms, and 
embrace the sky. Only it goes pitch-black, as suddenly as if someone threw 
a switch. A low humming emanates from the forest floor. What’s causing 
that? I get a bad feeling. To my horror, I see the arena sky flicker back into 
focus. 


“No... no!” I cry out. The berm’s still going at it, and sparks still 
spray from the apple tree, but the woods as a whole seems to have quieted. 
Maybe that’s okay, maybe that’s just part of it shutting down. To be sure, I 
dig in my pack, sling the binoculars around my neck, and fly to my sleeping 
tree, scurrying up the trunk like a squirrel mutt. When I reach my lookout 
position, I sway in the branches, peering through the lenses for an answer. 
Have I truly broken the arena? Are the Games finished? 

Far in the distance, beyond the meadow, the mountain erupts in a 
fountain of lethal gold, and I have my answer. For me, the party is over. 


PART Ill 


“THE POSTER” 


“J 


I have failed. The arena has been damaged, but not incapacitated. The 
Games continue. 

In District 12, we learn about mountains but predominantly the ones 
that cover the seams of coal that will provide our livelihood. Volcanoes 
barely get a mention. I know just enough to connect the name to the 
dazzling bursts of lava, the glowing streams, the cloud of ash flowing down 
the mountainside, enveloping everything in its path. I picture the 
tributes... Wellie... Hull... Maysilee... gasping for air... 
suffocating ... and drop the binoculars. I can’t see them, but I can see 
enough to imagine their terrifying ends. 

A blast of air hits my face, thick with stinging grit and a scent so 
cloying I begin to gag. I lose my footing for a moment and scramble for 
purchase. If the tree branches below didn’t catch me, I’d be dead on the 
forest floor. I squinch up my eyes against the howling, toxic wind. When I 
pull the collar of my billowy shirt up over my face, it provides a pocket of 
protection from the swirling particles. As I’ve learned at the gas plant berm 
when my shirtfront refused to ignite, and again when Ampert experimented 
with his sock in the campfire, our clothes provide a shield. This volcano is 


why. It has to be why. But I doubt our outfits are of much help to those 
caught on the mountain. 

Am | it, then? The last tribute left alive? The victor of the Quarter 
Quell? Even if the Gamemakers are firing cannons, there’s no way I could 
hear them between the aftereffects of the explosion and the roar of the wind. 
From what Ampert said, everybody else was over on the mountain. Perhaps 
some, if they’d bedded down near the base, could’ve fled to safety. I don’t 
know, though. They might outrun the lava, but not that cloud. It isn’t a real 
volcano, but how closely did the Gamemakers try to replicate one? Could 
the lava set everything on fire? What if that ginormous water tank was built 
so they could quench the aftermath of the volcano? In bombing the tank, I 
may have destroyed any hope for those who survived the eruption. 

I’m too exposed up in the tree. As soon as I’m able, I shinny down 
and collapse on the pine needles, using the trunk to block the wind. I retreat 
inside my shirt; there’s nothing to see anyway with the cloud erasing the 
moonlight. Besides, even if I could see, what would I do? Where would I 
go? If the fire comes, it comes. 

The full force of my failure hits me. Who do I think I am? Why did I 
think I could change anything? That I could take on the Capitol, with all its 
might, and bring the Hunger Games to a standstill? Me, a sixteen-year-old 
kid from the trashiest district in Panem with little schooling and no 
outstanding skills. I’ve got nothing but a big mouth and an inflated sense of 
my own self-importance. All foam, no beer, that’s me. Near beer. 

Plutarch’s words echo through my head, mocking me. “No more 
implicit submission for you, Haymitch Abernathy. Blow that water tank sky 
high. The entire country needs you to.” 

Well, bad call, Plutarch! Turns out I was built for implicit submission, 
head to toe, through and through, inside and out. 

I grind my palms into my face. What an idiot I am. What a stuck-up, 
self-centered, incompetent idiot I am. I don’t even know if Plutarch was on 
the rebels’ side. Like as not, he’s just another Capitol monster who’s 
laughing his head off now. 

But no, that doesn’t make sense. Because even if the Games continue, 
his advice helped me throw a real wrench in the works. The Capitol’s 
gorgeous arena’s gone haywire. It isn’t enough, though, just a minor 
disruption with no real consequences. Nothing I’ve done is enough. 


Ampert’s lopsided grin in the torchlight .. . surely his last smile... 
how he trusted me... and now there’s not even a body to return to Beetee . 
. .although Beetee could be dead, too... . 

I find I’m crying, or maybe it’s just my eyes trying to wash out the 
biting bits of ash. The scratches from the bat claws burn like all-fire and 
ooze blood into my clothes, which are no star in the absorbency department. 
Tear-soaked, blood-soaked, misery-soaked, I lay on my side and curl myself 
around the base of the tree trunk. 

Oh, Lenore Dove, how did it all come to this? The moaning wind 
conjures up the cabin by the lake last winter, her birthday, the best gift 
ever... me singing her song, which I am beginning to hate... 


Ah, distinctly I remember it was in the bleak December; 

And each separate dying ember wrought its ghost upon the floor. 

Eagerly I wished the morrow; — vainly I had sought to borrow 

From my books surcease of sorrow — sorrow for the lost Lenore — 

For the rare and radiant maiden whom the angels name Lenore — 
Nameless here for evermore. 


Nameless here in this world. Dead and gone as I am about to be. Will 
I be her lost one for evermore? Will she be haunted by me for the rest of her 
life? 

“Just let me go!” I cry out. I’m furious at myself for not telling her to 
move on after my death when I had the chance. I pound my head into the 
tree bark until blood runs, and then go limp as I await my end. All yours, 
President Snow... 

Sleep? No, I don’t sleep, but I’m so exhausted by the night’s exertions 
and the crushing weight of my despair that I achieve a sort of stupor. Hours 
and hours pass, I guess, because the wind quiets, the ash settles. 

Lenore Dove said there’s no guarantee the sun will rise, and I wish 
today proved her right. Nothing good awaits me. I’d rather hide in the dark. 
But eventually a faint daylight shows through my shirt. I don’t want to 
come out, so I don’t. Why am I even still alive? What cruel jokes are the 
Gamemakers playing on me now? 

The humming I noticed last night still radiates from the ground. I 
remember it directly preceded the return of the fake sky, and I put two and 


two together. It must be coming from the generator Beetee mentioned. The 
one just outside the arena. At the top end. Despite whatever disruption the 
flooding caused to the energy supply, the generator is keeping the arena 
running. Well, the energy supply was never our target: The brain was. 
Though it was damaged, enough of it’s still functioning to entertain the 
audience. 

“Oh, shut up! Who cares now?” I tell myself. I’m sick of wallowing 
in my failure. Enough. It’s all over. 

I try to go back into my stupor, but I’m too antsy. Scratching at the 
back of my brain are the words Mags spoke when we were about to begin 
our training. “In the early Games, I didn’t ask the tributes what they wanted 
because the answer seemed so obvious. You want to live. But then I realized, 
there are many desires beyond that. Mine had to do with my district partner. 
Protecting him.” 

We had wanted to die quick and proud with a minimum of suffering 
for our loved ones. I had wanted to outsmart the arena. But Mags had been 
concerned about her district partner. I don’t know if Maysilee’s still out 
there, but if she is, she might need me to help her die with her head up. And 
maybe some other Newcomers could use a hand as well. Multiple cannons 
must have fired after the volcano, but I didn’t hear them with everything 
going on. I haven’t been declared the victor, though, so someone else is 
alive. I won’t have a clue who until nightfall. 

Instead of giving up, maybe I’ll see if I can’t be of some tiny use to 
someone else. Throw myself in front of an attacking Career. Bring a 
Newcomer some food or water. I’m pretty hungry and thirsty myself, come 
to think of it, and I can’t afford to get weak. I might as well see if my 
supplies survived. 

When I pull back my shirt, I’m once again shocked by the beauty 
around me. I’d imagined the ash to be gray and dingy but, in keeping with 
the arena’s design, they’ve made it clear and sparkling, so that everything 
seems to be coated in a layer of rock candy. Sunlight bounces off the 
crystals, throwing tiny rainbows around the forest. I rise, stiff and sore, and 
knock the stuff from my clothes. I’m tempted to put a chunk of it to my 
parched lips, even though I’m pretty sure where that would land me. 

The ash disorients me, but after a while, I manage to crunch my way 
back to the butterfly bush berm, where the blossoms look preserved in ice. 


The berm’s ajar, although the mouth has gone still. No more sparks shoot 
from the trees, no baby deer rampage around, but I do see a few dead ones 
under the ash. Damage was done, for sure. Probably throughout the arena. 
The Gamemakers are going to have to be very careful about where they 
point their cameras. 

Everything looks frozen, like I should be shivering, but the air’s warm 
and perfumed. I kick the ash from my backpack, retrieve my water, and take 
a deep drink, leaving about half a jug. My remaining food consists of two 
potatoes, two rolls, one egg, one apple, and a final glass of grape juice. My 
belly’s hollow so I smush the egg between the rolls for a sandwich and wolf 
it down. I savor my last apple, then retrace my steps to the scene of 
Ampert’s death. His skeleton has been removed, but I find my hammock 
and shake it out. When it’s free of ash, I fold it neatly and return it to my 
pack. 

Now what? I consider going to find survivors, then realize I’m as 
likely to run into Careers as Newcomers. I dig around with my feet, trying 
to locate the spear I abandoned, but to no avail. Did the Gamemakers take it 
with his body? I uncover my knife, however, and try to retrace my steps to 
Ampert’s ax. It takes a while before I can remember I dropped it when the 
earth shook and I was flung to the ground. I hunt it down and slip it into my 
belt. I want to carry mementos of my allies with me. 

My fingers go to the sunflower at my neck and find its shellac coating 
has dissolved in the flood, leaving it firm but impressionable. The paint job 
holds up, so it still looks as good as new. Too bad I don’t have a blasting 
cap; the stuff isn’t much good without it. It needs another explosion to set it 
off. What would I blow up anyway? We succeeded in messing up the brain, 
but either it’s partially working or they’ve been able to run the arena from 
the Capitol. Probably some of both. Anyway, no chance I could get to it. At 
this point, the generator’s also essential to continuing the Games, but the 
only way to reach that would be to break out of this place. 

A tiny ray of light penetrates the gloom of my mind. Perhaps it would 
be possible to escape the arena and try to break the generator. All I’ve got is 
a knife and an ax, but that’s not nothing. Of course, it’s an incredible long 
shot... but so am I. Maybe I’m just the guy for the job. 

Doubts swamp me. You can‘ do it! It’Il never work! You’re just a 
loser with an ax, trying to chop down the Capitol again. Have you really 


learned nothing? 

Maybe I haven’t learned anything and there’s no chance of success 
and I should double down on my implicit submission. But the truth is, what 
have I got to lose? Nothing, that’s what. And I owe it to Ampert to try. 

What would Beetee do? For starters, he’d get me to the generator. He 
said it was at the top of the arena, and I must be close. The first thing will 
be to make it all the way north and find some way to break through the 
arena wall. I don’t even know if that’s made of cement or metal or some 
kind of force field, but I guess I’1l deal with that when I get there. 

After consulting the sun, I get my bearings and head north. My whole 
body’s stiff and sore and the straps on my backpack rub my bat scratches 
raw. I’d be quite a sight if District 12 had been dressed in yellow, but the 
black conceals the bloodstains fairly well. Even though I’m still starving 
and thirsty, I can’t afford to use any more of my meager supplies. If I find 
the generator, maybe I’ ll celebrate with a slice of potato. 

The woods have patches of life — songbirds singing and insects 
buzzing — and sections of complete silence. I don’t see any sign of the 
other tributes, and it’s quite likely that I’m the only one who’s traveled this 
far north. That means the mutt berms will be fully loaded, but they might 
also be disabled. Nothing to do but keep putting one foot in front of the 
other. 

After a couple of miles, I hear a pattering in the trees and a gentle rain 
begins to fall. I open my mouth and catch a few drops on my tongue. It 
tastes clean, like the fresh water, not the poison. Where did the 
Gamemakers find it with the tank blown wide open? Do they have a reserve 
tank? Pipes that reach this far from the Capitol? I placed the explosive 
chest-high; maybe the bottom foot or two of the tank remained intact and 
they’re accessing that. At any rate, I’ve got fresh water and I better not take 
it for granted. 

Quickly, I unscrew the caps of my water jugs and set them in the 
center of a clearing. I know it’s not ideal, catching stray drops, but it’s the 
best I can do at the moment. Then I strip down to my skivvies and wash off 
the blood. I notice the grit under my finger-nails dissolving like sugar 
crystals, and survey the trees. Sure enough, even the light shower melts the 
volcanic ash off the branches, and the runoff soaks into the ground. In a half 


hour, the rain stops, leaving the forest as fresh and pristine as the morning I 
entered it. 

It’s a relief to have the ash gone, but I can’t have caught more than a 
couple of tablespoons of water. A wasted opportunity. One of Wyatt’s tarps 
would’ve come in real handy — a mesh hammock isn’t worth diddly for 
rain collection. You work with what you get. 

What I get when I reach the end of the forest is not a brick or a steel 
or an electrified barrier, but a tall hedge that comes to a point like a V and 
stretches as far as the eye can see in both directions. On closer inspection, 
the plants appear to be some kind of holly, loaded with clusters of red 
berries and sporting prickly green leaves. It’s not unlike what people in 12 
use to decorate at New Year’s, although these berries have little black dots 
on their skins. Even the regular ones are poisonous, so I ignore these. I walk 
along the hedge, pondering how to approach it. The boughs don’t look like 
they’d support my weight and digging under the mulch at the base doesn’t 
seem like an option. Then I spy a slight opening, turn sideways, and 
manage to slip through the foliage without getting scratched. A narrow path 
leads about ten feet in, then curves farther into the hedge, which appears to 
be quite deep. Cautiously, I begin to weave my way through the greenery on 
the twisty-turny path, feeling I’m headed north but sometimes forced to 
diverge right or left out of necessity. It can’t go on forever, I think. 
Eventually, I will reach the end of the arena. 

But I don’t. The path winds this way and that, sometimes reaching a 
dead end or coming to a fork, which requires me to make a choice. Too late, 
I realize I should have been notching trunks or making little piles of mulch 
or something to mark my path because I’m hopelessly lost. I try to use the 
sun to orient myself, but I swear the Gamemakers are shifting the thing 
around in the sky just to confuse me further. Trapped in a dense maze of 
holly, I start panicking, plowing down paths recklessly, without any real 
plan but with a rising sense of claustrophobia. Forget the northern wall — I 
just need to get out of this place. Perspiration pours down my face and I’m 
dying of thirst, but I certainly don’t think I deserve a drink, given how 
easily I’ve been duped into this predicament. If the Gamemakers decide to 
unleash a mutt on me, and why not, I won’t stand a chance of escaping. 
This is not how I want Ma and Sid and Lenore Dove to see me die. So very 
foolishly. 


This goes on for hours, with me driven by a fear of taking my last 
breath in this spiky holiday hallucination, desperate for any change of 
scenery. Finally, exhausted and frazzled, I sink down onto my knees and try 
to collect my thoughts. The hedge has muffled the forest sounds, so just the 
faintest notes of birdsong reach my ears. A breeze is too much to hope for, 
but if I sit very still, I can catch the slight movement of air. I weigh my 
options: give up, continue to bumble around, or try to hack my way through 
the hedge with the ax. The last seems to have the most potential, but there’s 
something almost sinister about the hedge that stays my hand. With it 
towering about me, at least several feet thick, I feel diminished by its size, 
frightened by what it might harbor. Resigned to my fate, I rise to my feet 
and reach for the ax. 

As I do, a movement ahead of me catches my attention. I look up to 
see a gray rabbit watching me. I don’t know if it’s really the same one I 
shared the apple with, but it comforts me to think it is. 

“Hey, my friend,” I say. “How you doing?” 

After a few ear twitches, it turns and darts away from me. Without 
thinking, I follow. Maybe it can use its nose to get us out? I stay on its trail, 
tracking that white cottontail at every turn, and after a minute or two, I see 
the forest at the end of a stretch. I give a whoop and sprint for the trees. The 
rabbit shoots out the opening and I’m a few yards behind it. 

As I barrel out of the hedge, a sword blade whistles by my head, just 
catching the tip of my ear. I cry out and trip backward over a dead branch. 
After days of isolation broken only by allies, I’ve all but forgotten about the 
threat of the Careers. Now they’ve caught me completely off guard. 

Nothing that happens in the next minute is premeditated, only 
reflexive. As a girl tribute from District 4 lunges with her trident pointed at 
my neck, I clumsily deflect it with my left arm and whip out my knife just 
in time to drive it into her gut. Rolling to the side, I encounter a leg and 
hamstring it, leaving her district partner writhing on the ground. Scrabbling 
to my feet, I pull out the ax and cleave open his neck with a single 
adrenaline-fueled blow, then turn to take on the owner of the sword: 
Panache. 

For a moment we face off, me, my knife, and the ax against him, his 
sword, and his shield. With the terrible groans from the wounded girl 
accompanying us, we circle each other slowly. I take in the burns along his 


arms and legs, the cracked lips, the mad-dog look in his eyes. A sense of 
dread fills me. He’s much bigger, better armed, and crazed with pain. My 
eyes flick to the nearby woods, seeking an escape route. 

“Uh-uh,” says Panache. 

With a single swoop, he knocks the ax from my hand, his blade 
drawing blood, and then slams the shield into my chest so hard I lose my 
grip on my knife. Gasping for breath, I back away, hands lifted, with only 
my words to defend me. 

I start talking fast. “Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, Panache, think about 
this. Looks bad, killing an unarmed man. Especially me being from Twelve 
and all. I mean, I got a one in training. Seems cowardly. On your part. 
Think about your image. You don’t want to do something stupid.” I am not 
making the world’s strongest argument, but the word gives him pause; I 
guess I have Caesar to thank for that. I jabber on, saying anything, trying to 
buy time. “Listen, I know you’re not a meathead — that chariot idea was 
brilliant, sorry I swiped it — but you need to play this smart, am I right? 
Else it could affect your sponsor gifts. How you making out with those 
anyway? Me, I’ve been doing pretty well. Turns out, some people love a 
loser. But you, everybody knows you’re going to win. You always win. 
Come on, at least slide my knife over here so we can give the people a 
show.” 

Panache gives his head a shake, like he’s clearing my words from his 
brain. “No! We already fought. You lost. Now you die!” He draws back his 
sword, eyes locked on my throat, and I brace myself for the blow, trying to 
look brave and defiant and proud, staring him down so hard he has to admit 
that even if he kills me, he hasn’t defeated me. In my last moment, I need to 
see recognition of that. 

What I see instead is the surprise that transforms his face as the dart 
pierces his throat. 


Panache’s sword thuds to the earth and he collapses, senseless. I whip 
around to see Maysilee emerge from behind a tree. A blowgun balances 
delicately in her fingers, the mouthpiece attached to a braided vine around 
her neck. Her latest necklace. Emotionless, she watches Panache expire. 

“We'd live longer with two of us,” she says. 

“Guess you just proved that.” I rub my neck where the dart entered 
Panache’s. “Allies?” 

She thinks it over, nods, and pats a pouch at her hip. “But I’ve got a 
dozen poison darts left if you’re still feeling exclusive.” 

“Noted. It sure is good to see you, Miss Donner.” The cannon fires 
three times, shutting me up. I take in the dead bodies around us, for the first 
time recognizing that I’ve killed someone. Two someones. Brutally. It was 
self-defense, no question, but I know I can never go back to five minutes 
ago. Having taken their lives . . . in that way . . . it’s undoable. I pick up my 
weapons. “Let’s get out of here.” 

Maysilee considers the dead Careers and relieves the District 4 girl of 
her dagger. “Want anything else?” 

“No.” I can’t use a trident and the idea of claiming Panache’s sword, 
stained with Newcomer blood, creeps me out. I’m not his heir, the new 


leader of the pack, nor do I want to present myself as such. 

We walk away from the hedge, deeper into the woods. After a minute, 
the hovercraft flies over us, en route to collecting the bodies. The giant claw 
descends, lifting them, one, two, three into the sky as the craft swallows 
them up. We stop when they’ ve all been retrieved. There’s nothing to walk 
away from anymore. 

“You’re bleeding,” Maysilee points out. 

Two gashes. One from deflecting the trident, one from Panache’s 
sword. 

“Sit down,” she orders. I sink onto a fallen log and she pulls a first-aid 
kit from her black backpack. “I got this off a dead Career. The burn cream 
kept me from going off my head.” Her shirtsleeves have been cut off at the 
shoulder, and I note the burn marks on her arms, competing for space with 
the riding crop welts and a range of cuts and bruises, her skin a map of the 
abuse she’s suffered since the reaping. Who would’ve ever believed that 
coddled Maysilee Donner, of the nail polish and velvet bows, would come 
to this? And face it with such fortitude? Mamaw used to say you never 
really knew who’d swim in a flood. 

“T guess the lava just burned up everything in its path?” 

“No, it wasn’t even hot. It was some sort of gel that gave you 
chemical burns if it got under your clothes, then turned hard and slippery as 
ice on the ground.” 

Guess that’s why there was no smoke and I didn’t burn up. 

Methodically, Maysilee cleans the wounds and closes them with neat, 
even stitches. I’m not surprised really, after watching her create those artful 
tokens out of spit and string. When I’m sealed up again, she sits across from 
me and clocks my pack. “Any food?” 

“Oh, I’ve got piles of food, but tragically, no silverware.” 

One side of her mouth curls up. She pulls a pocketknife and a fork 
twisted out of a piece of wire from her pocket. “We’re covered.” 

“Well, that’s a game changer. Are you free for dinner? Because I’m in 
possession of two very fine potatoes. Raw, but potentially bakeable. You?” 
“Three slices of dried beef and half a can of olives. Fifty-fifty?” 

“Close your eyes a minute.” 

Maysilee squints at me. “Why?” 


“Just do it.” She closes one. “Both of them.” When she does, I pull 
out my glass, which has heroically survived the day, empty the rest of the 
bottle into it, and hold it out. “Okay, open up.” 

At the sight of the elegant glass, the rich grape juice, she gives a little 
gasp. “That’s the most beautiful thing I’ve ever seen.” 

“Tt’s yours. A thank-you for saving my life.” 

She grins. “Fifty-fifty or no deal.” 

“Done.” Because really, I want that juice like all-fire. “But you first.” 

Maysilee takes the glass, sniffs the bouquet like it’s a fine wine, and 
takes a sip. Tears actually come to her eyes. “Oh, my word. Never thought 
I’d taste home again.” She hands it back. “Now you.” 

Evening falls as we take our time passing the glass back and forth, 
savoring every drop. I make sure she gets the last mouthful. She wipes out 
the glass with her handkerchief and tries to return it. 

“No, you keep it. It belongs with your table setting.” 

She carefully stows it away in her pack. I lean back against the log, 
spent. “So, I’ve barely seen a soul. What’s going on out there?” 

Maysilee thinks a minute, fingering a burn on her arm. “Hard to say. 
The arena’s on the blink, but I’m sure you’re aware of that. If you mean the 
other tributes . . . for all I know, we’re the last two left.” 

“Well, if it comes to that, I’m on borrowed time anyway. Don’t think 
twice about using those darts.” 

“You think I couldn’t?” 

I look her straight in the eye. I remember all the years of meanness, 
but I also factor in how she’s transformed since the reaping. Defending 
Louella, helping Ampert, looking out for the Newcomers. “I think you 
couldn’t.” 

For just a second, a look crosses her face. Young and vulnerable. 
“Thanks for that. I don’t think you could either.” 

Just before the moment gets too embarrassing, the anthem begins to 
play. Our heads tilt up. 

“By my count, we were at twenty-six last night,” Maysilee says. 

“Yeah, mine, too. If I keep track of the overall number, can you try to 
remember who’s gone? You’re better at details.” 

“T’1l do my best.” Maysilee’s fingers entwine in her necklaces as she 
homes in on the sky. 


Panache appears first, followed by all four kids from District 2. 

The fingers on my right hand press into the pine needles. “Bad day for 
the Careers.” 

But then Ampert leads off his entire team. Every single kid from 
District 3 is history. 

“Bad day for everybody,” says Maysilee. 

Next the boy and girl I just killed from District 4. Seems like the first 
time I’ve ever looked at them. I feel sick, thinking of their families. Self- 
defense, I know. I focus on the head count. “We’re up to eleven.” 

A boy and a girl from District 5. “Five’s out now,” says Maysilee. 

One of my doves, Atread, who’s the last boy from District 6. A boy 
from District 10. The girl from District 11 who isn’t Chicory. Blackout. 

“Sixteen,” I say. “That leaves ten of us.” 

“Only two Careers left. Silka from One and Maritte from Four. Eight 
of us Newcomers. You, me, Hull, and Chicory from Eleven.” Maysilee 
takes a deep breath, concentrating. “Ringina and the other girl from Seven, I 
think her name’s Autumn. Two more. Who am I missing?” 

“One of my doves from Six.” 

“Right, Wellie. And someone else. Can’t place them right off. A boy, I 
think. He’s dressed in red. District Ten,” she concludes. 

I remember Ampert swinging his lariat around in the gym. A boy 
from 10 had made it for him. . . . “Buck?” 

“That’s it.” 

“You did great. I don’t know how you remembered them all.” 

“T focus on their colors. No more purple, no more electric blue, no 
more orange, or peach, or yellow. And just a smattering of the rest of us.” 

“Only two Careers left, though,” I say. “Wyatt would like those odds.” 

At the mention of our oddsmaker, we both fall silent. Thirty-eight of 
us dead. Thirty-nine if you count Lou Lou. Forty if you count Woodbine. 
Just a smattering of us left. It doesn’t seem real. Nothing here is real. 

The fake moon rises, casting a silvery light over our little clearing. I 
feel Maysilee a few feet away, sense her pulse, the rise and fall of her chest, 
but she seems as impermanent as the rest of it. Possibly I have died — by 
poisoning, in the tunnel, on Panache’s sword — and have moved on to one 
of Lenore Dove’s worlds, where I continue to dream of life. 

“Have you killed anyone besides Barba and Angler?” Maysilee asks. 


Those must be the kids I fought from District 4. “No, just them. You?” 

“Panache was my second. I took out Loupe from District One a 
couple of days ago. He’d broken away from the pack with Camilla from 
Two. Pretty sure I got a dart into her, but the volcano might have finished 
her in the end.” 

The thunk of the pot hitting the ground behind us makes us jump. 
Maysilee retrieves the gift and detaches the parachute. “I hope it’s food.” 
She lifts the lid, and a cloud of bean and ham hock soup steam dampens my 
face. Mags. Trying to reach us, to let us know we are not alone in our pain, 
to give us strength to go on. Tears fill my eyes, forcing me to admit my 
presence in the only world I know. Not an imaginary one. The one where I 
am in the Hunger Games for real. 

“Like when my grandmother died,” says Maysilee. 

“Mine, too.” I don’t list all my dead. It’s not a competition. 

She unclips two spoons from the lid of the pot and hands me one. 
Silently, we eat our soup. Fifty-fifty. 

The night air feels chilly. Maysilee pulls her shirt down over her knees 
for warmth and hugs herself, but I can still see the gooseflesh on her arms. 
“T could make a fire if you’d like,” I offer. 

“That’d be good. If you don’t think it’s too dangerous,” she says. 

“Not if one of us keeps watch. In fact, it could be a good thing if the 
other Newcomers find us.” 

“We can handle Maritte and Silka. Right?” 

“With you and those darts? I don’t think we even need me.” 

I collect wood and put my flint striker to work. 

“Aren’t you a sly dog,” says Maysilee. “Smuggling that in.” 

“Well, you know I like my pretty with a purpose.” My voice catches a 
bit, remembering where I heard that. I concentrate on getting a fire going. 

Maysilee smooths out a small tarp on the ground, settles herself on it, 
and rubs her hands over the blaze. “You can sleep now if you want. I’m not 
tired.” 

The circles under her eyes say otherwise, but I’m fading fast. “Okay, 
but wake me anytime to take over.” I secure my flint striker around my 
neck, spread out my hammock on the ground, and stretch out, watching the 
tongues of fire dance. 

“Works better if you close your eyes,” she says. 


“Yeah.” I shift positions, but something seems unfinished. Like I 
never really thanked her for today. No, I did. With the juice. But that 
doesn’t begin to cover it. What do you say to the meanest girl in town who’s 
become your friend? No, more than a friend, really. A Newcomer. Being 
tributes and not killing each other . . . looking out for each other with no 
questions asked . . . that’s family, I guess. 

“You need to sleep while you can, Haymitch.” 

“T know but... what I’m thinking ... you and me... You remember 
what Ampert said when you made his token?” 

There’s a long pause before she says, “Sure. I’1l be your sister.” 

Our hands reach out at the same time, clasp, and then release. “’ Night, 
Sis.” I roll over and let sleep take me. 

My dreams are nothing I want to remember, full of people I must 
never forget. I visit death after death. It’s a relief to be woken up. 

Maysilee has let me sleep most of the night. When we switch places, 
I’m determined to give her the same opportunity. Ax and knife at hand, I 
keep the fire burning with bits of fuel until the sun rises on our fifth day in 
the arena. My stomach growls so loud I’m afraid it might wake her. Last 
night’s soup seems a distant memory. I should be watching the woods, but 
my eyes keep drifting upward, hoping for a sponsor gift. Nothing would be 
too small, a piece of bread, a bit of cheese, and our water’s getting mighty 
low. 

I focus on my plan. Obviously, I was onto something with that hedge. 
They played me, but they also confirmed what I suspected. I’ve found the 
end of the arena. If I can get through the shrubbery, I’ ll find the generator 
and try to hack it to bits. 

Time’s a-wasting, but Maysilee deserves some shut-eye. To distract 
myself, I pull her tarp out from under my butt and attempt to fashion it into 
some sort of gizmo to catch rainwater, in the event any more should fall. 
My efforts result in a crooked funnel of sorts, that I tie with vines at the 
point. Seems like something of an achievement, until I hear her laughter. 

“Made yourself a hat, did you?” 

I’m kind of glad just to hear her laugh. “This, I’1l have you know, is a 
first-class watercatcher. And you will eat those words.” 

“Will I? Exactly how are all the raindrops supposed to find that tiny 
opening?” 


She has a point. There’s very little room for the rain to enter, which is 
no way to collect water. The water that fills our rain barrel has a roof to 
catch it before it finds its way down the drainpipe. “More surface area, you 
thinking?” 

“I'm thinking.” Maysilee holds out her hand for my funnel. She 
unwraps the tarp and flattens it out thoughtfully. It’s about four by four feet 
with little rings in the corners for securing it. “First, we’ll need some way to 
mount it.” She looks around, then gathers some vines. I help her tie them to 
the rings. She borrows my knife and punches a small hole in the very center 
of the tarp. “Now the water can run out there. Wish we had a tube of some 
kind; it would channel it into your jug.” 

We take inventory of our stuff, which seems fruitless until I spy the 
wineglass. I remember how the juice filled the entire stem. “How attached 
are you to this?” 

“Less attached than I am to water,” says Maysilee. 

Placing the glass carefully on the log, I chop off the base and the 
bowl, leaving a hollow glass tube. Maysilee slides it into the hole. The 
jagged glass does a nice job of holding it in place. 

“That should work,” she says. “Now all we need’s a rain shower.” She 
folds the tarp carefully and returns it to her pack. “So, what’s the plan? I 
was thinking we might go back to the Cornucopia to see if we can find any 
food that got left behind. Then we could go look for the other Newcomers. 
Or do you think we should find them first?” 

“T think we should head north.” 

“North? Whatever for?” 

“T just have a feeling about it,” I say, so the Gamemakers won’t 
suspect my next move. 

“Haymitch, I need food.” 

“Thought you weren’t a breakfast person.” 

“Well, in here, I’m a breakfast-lunch-and-supper person. Never really 
knew what it was like to be hungry before. I mean, really hungry. It hurts.” 
She presses her hand against her stomach. “And it scares me.” 

“I’m familiar. But I’m bent on heading north.” 

“Can we at least try to locate the Careers’ packs? They must’ve 
hidden them somewhere around here before they hunted you.” 

“Good thinking, but not for too long. Fifteen minutes and we go.” 


Maysilee gives me a probing look but begins the search. She 
suspected I wasn’t being up front with her back in the apartment. I don’t 
know if she credits me with the arena breakdown, but she knows 
something’s still up that I’m not sharing. Should I tell her? How? When? 
Those cameras have to be on us. 

We go back to the site of the fight and spiral out, looking for any 
supplies the Careers might have stashed. Sure enough, we find some tucked 
under a rock shelf, only a short distance away. Three backpacks of various 
sizes. We dump them out on the ground and take stock of the contents. A 
hammock like mine. Two empty water jugs. Three handkerchiefs. A bottle 
of syrupy medicine for when you’ve been poisoned. A second tarp. A 
blowtorch, something like the one I’ve seen Tam Amber use. I press the 
lever, there’s a click, and six inches of flame shoot out. 

Maysilee raises her eyebrows. “Starting fires will be a cinch now.” 

Almost makes me sad, seeing Lenore Dove’s gift become obsolete so 
quickly. “Until the fuel runs out,” I counter. 

We lay out the food with care. A flat tin of sardines. A banana with 
brown spots. Four rolls. A jar of nut butter with about an inch left. I add my 
two potatoes and Maysilee her three dried beef jerky strips and olives. 
Could be worse. 

“Okay, breakfast person, what will it be?” I ask her. 

Maysilee takes charge of the food, halving the rolls and spreading 
them with the nut butter, artfully arranging slices of smushy banana on top. 
I’m not sure about the combination, but one bite dispels any doubt. “This is 
prime,” I say. 

“Well, Iam responsible for the more innovative flavor combinations 
at our shop. Did you ever try our hot pepper cherry taffy?” 

“T did! That was Mamaw’s favorite!” 

She gets out her knife and fork and cuts off a piece of her roll. “That 
was mine. Also, the cream cheese cinnamon balls and the lavender suckers. 
The mayor was partial to those.” 

“Sounds like the job wasn’t all bad,” I comment. 

She sighs. “Ironic is what it was. I don’t even care much for candy. So 
many more interesting things to make.” 

I wolf down my sandwiches before she’s even finished her first and 
look around for something to do. I take the lids off the Careers’ water jugs, 


hoping for a few drops. Dry as a bone. “Guess they were thirsty, too.” 
Stripping some vines off a tree, I rig the second tarp for water catching. “No 
tube for this one.” 

“We’|l make it work,” says Maysilee. “With a second hammock, 
maybe we can both sleep up in the trees.” 

“Sure. Feels safer up there. If we go high enough, we won’t need to be 
on watch. We’d hear anybody coming.” 

We pack up our booty, and she gestures for me to go first. “After 
you.” 

Trouble is, I don’t know where we are. I head off like I do. Trekking 
through the woods might give me an opportunity to reorient myself. Since I 
don’t entirely trust the sun’s position anymore, I’m hoping for a few 
landmarks to get my bearings. We run into one after about ten minutes: the 
blueberry bushes with the broken branches where I hid my first night. That 
hedge really spit me out a long way from where I entered. 

“That’s where Lou Lou found me,” I tell Maysilee. 

“Oh. Blueberries.” She pulls out a small bowl and begins to gather 
them by the handful, which alarms me. 

“You know we can’t eat those, right?” 

“’Course I do. But my poison’s running low. Need to restock.” 

I guess the darts didn’t come poisoned. Leave it to Maysilee to make 
them lethal. She mashes the berries into a juicy paste. 

“You really need to do all that now?” It’s already late morning, and 
I’m getting fidgety. 

“What’s the big rush, Haymitch?” That shuts me up. She knows I’ve 
got a secret worth telling and she’s using it against me. Like she did with 
Lenore Dove, I guess. 

Maysilee drains some of the liquid into a heart-shaped glass vial that 
hangs from one of her necklaces. “It’s designed for perfume, so it’s got a 
good tight lid to prevent evaporation. Just wish it held more.” She twists the 
tiny lid back on the heart. “How’d she die anyway? Lou Lou?” 

“Inhaling bee balm,” I say. “Ampert told me about Wyatt.” 

“He was trying to shield her. When he died, she ran away. I tried to 
follow her, but I lost her at the mountain.” She wipes her bow! with some 
leaves. “I wonder what they’re thinking back home. Bet everyone’s rooting 
for you.” 


“Maybe before the gong, but not anymore. You’re the one who tried 
to stick with the Newcomers. I know I'd be rooting for you.” 

“Trying’s not doing.” 

“No, but it sure beats not trying.” Of course, I have been trying to 
accomplish any number of things that I’m sure never made it on air. But 
trying wasn’t doing there either. At least, | know which way to head now. 
Maybe at the hedge, I’ll be able to get some doing done. 

We hike along in silence, keeping an eye out for Careers, Newcomers, 
and mutts, but meeting no one. Sometimes we pass a casualty of the 
flooding .. . trees that drip blood instead of sap .. . a gaping hole where 
something exploded, leaving a slimy clear liquid coating everything in its 
vicinity ... a stump that belches sulfurous, glowing gas... all of which we 
give a wide berth to. 

I stop to examine a trio of dead fox mutts, fur as orange as sunset, 
who appear to have died eating poisonous eggs. 

“What do you think those things were designed to do?” I ask. 

“Steal our food probably,” says Maysilee. 

Or eat us, I think. Like the squirrels. Who knows? Maybe those were 
programmed for me. 

Around midday we reach the hedge. “It’s a maze.” I tell Maysilee. 
“No point in trying to outsmart it. It’ll spin you around for miles.” 

“What’s your plan?” 

“My plan is, we cut straight through it and take a gander at what’s on 
the other side.” I drop my pack to the ground, roll up my sleeves, and pull 
out my long knife. 

Maysilee surveys the hedge — its height, its length — then steps in 
closer for a look at the holly leaves and speckled berries. “Something’s not 
right about this hedge.” She looks back over her shoulder, considering 
what’s behind us. “But that’s nothing new.” 

“T was in it for hours yesterday, and the worst I got was lost. I think 
that’s its purpose,” I reassure her. 

She sets down her pack and pulls out the dagger she got from Barba. 
We slip through the opening and take advantage of the ten feet of straight 
path, then stop as it begins to curve into the maze. I square my shoulders so 
I’m facing true north. “Here. This is where we should go in. Probably the 
faster the better.” 


“Gotcha.” Maysilee steps up beside me. “On three?” 

I nod and we count together, slowly raising our weapons. “One, two, 
three!” 

We bring down our blades simultaneously, slicing cleanly through the 
greenery. But we’ve barely finished our first strokes when dozens of the 
holly berries pop off their stems and swarm up our arms. We both give a 
holler and begin brushing them off. 

“What the hell are these?!” I exclaim. 

“Ladybugs!” says Maysilee. 

Ladybugs? I lift my hand to examine one. It’s a ladybug, all right, or 
pretty near. All up and down my arms, the creatures latch on to the flesh. 
Within seconds, they inflate to the size of acorns and begin exploding, 
splattering my face with my blood. 


“J 


Maysilee has already fled the hedge, and I hightail it out after her. 
Both of us scream our heads off, running in circles as we try to claw the 
things from our skin. Once they’ve attached those tiny hypodermic needle 
mouths, they’re stubborn as all get-out. 

“Pluck!” Maysilee orders me. “Pluck!” She dances in place but has 
settled enough to be pinching each ladybug and yanking it straight out. 

I follow suit. The suckers are dug in deep, akin to those on a really 
determined tick. If I get a grip up near the head and pull firmly and slowly, 
they pop out in a spray of blood. Planting my feet on the ground to steady 
myself, I mutter, “Bug by bug .. . bug by bug... bug by bug...” as I 
pluck away at my arms, my neck, my face. I strip off my shirt and pants, but 
only a few made it beneath the loose fabric. When I’m largely vermin-free, 
I go to work on Maysilee, who, sleeveless, has had the worst of it. “Bug by 
bug... bug by bug...” 

She’s trembling all over and, what do you know, so am I. “Bug by 
bug...” we chant together. “Bug by bug. . .” When all the visible ones are 
gone, she strips down to her underwear, too. “My back?” Yeah, there’s 
another half dozen there. I’m light-headed and want to sit down, but I don’t 
stop until every bug’s dead and gone. 


“Okay, you’re clean,” I tell her. “You’re all clean.” We both slump to 
the ground, pale and drained in our bloody skivvies. Parched, I dig in my 
pack for the water and insist she drink first. “I’m sorry, this was my fault. 
Talking big like I knew what was in there. I swear, none of them bothered 
me yesterday.” 

“T don’t think the Gamemakers want us going through that hedge,” 
Maysilee observes. 

I nod. “Message received.” 

“How much blood do you think we lost?” she asks. 

“T don’t know. Maybe a cup or two?” A rogue ladybug explodes 
behind my ear, making me woozier. I pull the three beef strips out of the 
pack and hand them to her. “Here. Get some iron in your blood.” 

She divides them in half. “Fifty-fifty.” As we eat, she comments, 
“Your plan is not sustainable.” 

I look at her sawing away at her jerky with her pocket-knife and 
homemade fork, and can’t help laughing a bit. “No, it certainly is not.” My 
head’s too muddled to come up with a new plan. All I can do is stretch out 
on my back and stare at the perfect azure-blue sky. “I can’t seem to think 
straight.” 

“Me either.” She rustles in the pack. “Do you like olives?” 

“No idea. Never had one.” 

She holds one out to me. “Suck on it for a bit, get the salt out. There’s 
a pit inside.” 

I place one on my tongue, assessing the smooth skin, the strange rich 
taste, tangy and metallic. “Not bad.” She deposits two more in my palm. I 
savor each one, rolling it around my mouth and slowly letting my teeth 
wear it down to the pit. 

Time passes, clouds move in, and rain begins to fall. “The tarps!” I 
cry. We shakily find our feet and unfold our tarps. Reluctant to place them 
under the poisonous trees, we drive branches into the ground to form posts 
and stretch the tarps out, so there’s nothing between them and the sky. 
Almost immediately, we get results, and a slow trickle runs off them into 
the waiting water jugs below. 

The rain intensifies and we stand, heads back, washing the blood from 
our faces and bodies. When we pass for clean, we hold our clothes in the 


downpour, laundering them as best we can. After about twenty minutes, the 
clouds turn off like somebody twisted the faucet. 

We dress, letting the thin material dry on our bodies, and pass a water 
jug between us. “Well, if we weren’t before, we’re blood kin now,” says 
Maysilee. 

“Sure enough, Sis. I think I swallowed enough of your blood to 
qualify.” 

“Did you ever want a real sister?” 

“T had two for a short time. Twins like you and Merrilee. They didn’t 
make it.” 

“I'm sorry. I didn’t know that.” 

“No reason you should. It was before school and all.” 

A sad look crosses her face. “I keep wondering, will Merrilee still be 
a twin, after I’m gone?” 

“Always,” I say without hesitation, imagining Sid watching us. I hope 
he won’t think of himself as an only child. 

“This is going to be hard on her,” says Maysilee. 

After the Games comes the fallout from the Games. Spreading out 
like ripples in a pond when you toss in a rock. Concentric circles of 
damage, washing over the dead tributes’ families, their friends, their 
neighbors, to the ends of the district. Those in closest get hit the worst. 
White liquor and depression, broken families and violence and suicide. We 
never really recover, just move on the best we can. 

Sid’s still so young, too tender for this world. “I worry about my 
brother, too.” 

“He comes in the shop sometimes. Loves his taffy. Sid, right?” 

I’m touched she knows his name, remembered this detail about him. 
“Yeah. Sid.” 

The cannon sounds twice, startling us. 

“T guess it’s too much to hope it’s Silka and Maritte,” I say. 

“T don’t know what to hope for. That would leave only us 
Newcomers. And then what?” says Maysilee bleakly. 

Then what, indeed. “Another meeting, like you said in the Capitol.” 

“And if we agree to stay true?” 

“More mutts,” I say. “Another volcano eruption.” 


“Hunger.” She rubs her stomach. “So, can we go back now to the 
Cornucopia? Look for food?” 

“It’s probably a six-mile hike. Should we try to recover a bit more?” 

“What food do we have left again?” 

I check the pack. “Sardines, olives, and two potatoes.” 

“We better try for the Comucopia,” she says. 

Truth is, I’m so wiped out, I’d rather sit here and hope for food to 
drop from the sky, but I owe it to her to try her idea. Besides, the longer the 
Games go on, the pricier it becomes to send us anything, and our sponsor 
donations may be depleted. We pack everything up and head south. 

We trudge along for a couple of miles before Maysilee stops and 
raises her head. “Listen.” 

I strain my ears, but they’re still not so good as normal, with the blast 
and all. Things sound kind of muffled and partial, like I’ve got bits of cotton 
wool in my ears. “I don’t hear anything.” 

“Shush!” she whispers urgently. “Over there.” She points off to our 
right, to the west. 

I cock my head for better reception, and this time I do pick up 
something. “Is that a baby?” My brain starts spinning images of ravenous 
babies designed with superhuman strength crawling around the woods, 
crying for us to help them, but really looking to swarm us and pick our 
bones clean as a wishbone with their chubby little fingers. 

“T thought so at first, but there’s an animal sound to it, too. Kind of 
squealing and mewling . . . like a goat or a kitten.” 

My mind adds horns and fluffy tails to the mutt babies. “Let’s keep 
clear. Whatever it is doesn’t need our help.” 

An agonized scream echoes through the trees. Definitely from a guy. 

“But he does. All the male Careers are dead, Haymitch.” Maysilee 
loads her blowgun. “That’s either Hull or Buck.” 

I pull my knife and my ax. “Let’s go.” 

I ditch my pack in a patch of katniss and we take off toward the 
disturbance. I can’t shake the image of those baby mutts from my mind, but 
I forge ahead, already thinking of protecting my kneecaps. The weird baby 
noise becomes more distinct and less recognizable, but it’s overlaid by 
some very familiar moans of human pain. Suddenly, Maysilee yanks me to 


the ground and I’m peering through the bushes down a small slope into a 
clearing. 

About fifteen feet away, Buck and Chicory lie writhing on the ground. 
Long metallic spikes that resemble knitting needles protrude from their 
flesh. They paw at them with clumsy hands, as if they’ve got really bad 
frostbite or something’s disabled their fingers. I’m trying to make sense of 
the scene — does Silka have a weapon that shoots projectiles? Did they run 
into a pine tree with detachable poison needles? Is there an army of mutt 
wasps with wicked stingers? The mutts so far have come in droves, be it 
butterflies, bats, squirrels, or ladybugs, so I’m thrown when the lone source 
of the attack waddles into view. 

Porcupines inhabit the hills around 12. Lenore Dove has an affection 
for the ones back home — quill pigs she calls them — saying they’re 
misunderstood. They can’t shoot quills like people think; you have to come 
in contact with them, especially their tails, and if you leave them be, they 
leave you be. But even she would have trouble loving this massive mutant 
beast. It’s the size of a bear — in fact, it might have been crossed with one 
in the lab, given its claws and teeth. Like everything in the arena, it’s 
striking in its way. The rows of pure gold, silver, and bronze quills adorning 
its back, sides, and tail gleam in the sunlight. But I’m long over being 
seduced by the arena’s beauty. 

Distorted baby sounds continue to stream from its mouth as it snuffles 
around the clearing. Hull, who has a half dozen quills dangling from his 
swollen face, hollers as he lunges at it with a pitchfork. The porcupine 
responds by backing toward him, its deadly rear raised and bristling. Hull 
could run away, but he’s trying to get to his allies. Hoping they might be 
only injured, instead of dying. 

“We need some kind of shield,” Maysilee whispers, sliding off her 
backpack and pulling out our tarps. 

I run my fingers over the thick canvas, coated with something to make 
it waterproof, though not necessarily quill-proof. “Maybe if we double them 
up?” I suggest. Layered together, they feel a bit more secure. “Okay, what’s 
the plan? I think we’re safe if we keep our distance. It has to make contact 
to quill us.” 

We weigh our options. Maysilee decides, “I can try the darts if we’re a 
bit closer, but I’m afraid they’ Il have trouble getting through to its skin. You 


think you could get a knife in it?” 

“Not sure. It does look pretty well protected. Maybe if we flip it on its 
back? Get the underbelly?” 

“Flip it with what?” 

I spy a sturdy tree limb on the ground. “Branch might work.” 

Just then, the porcupine twists its hindquarters and drives a slew of 
quills into Hull’s thigh. He cries out in agony and sinks to the ground. I 
retrieve the branch and start snapping off the smaller shoots to streamline it 
into a staff. The sound draws the attention of the beast and it begins to 
clatter its teeth together. As it shifts in our direction and approaches, a 
stench of musk and roses washes over us, making my eyes water. 

Maysilee hoists the double tarp in front of us and we peer over it. “I 
don’t have a lot of confidence in this flipping thing,” she says. “And it’s still 
too far for darts. What about your ax? Can you throw it?” 

With the amount of kindling the world’s required of me, chopping 
wood for white liquor and laundry, I’ve messed around with axes plenty. 
This one’s on the long side and I’ve never practiced with it, though it’s not 
dissimilar to one I threw with Ringina back in training. 

“T can try,” I say. “But you better have those darts ready.” 

I shove my knife in my belt and get a double-handed grip on my ax, 
the way they said was best in the gym. “Okay, now.” As Maysilee lowers 
the tarps, I drop the ax back behind my head and then launch it at the 
porcupine. It makes one rotation before the blade buries itself in the beast’s 
side. 

A squeal of pain and indignation rings out. The mutt puts us squarely 
in line with its butt, but I’m not too worried because we still have ten feet 
between us. Then it begins to demonstrate some unusual behavior, 
quivering at first, which leads to it shaking like a wet dog. The quills shoot 
out in a sunburst, and Maysilee barely has time to yank the tarps back up 
before a dozen pierce them. One sticks the bulb of my nose and another 
comes a hair’s breadth from my pupil, dangerously close to blinding me. I 
jerk back and rip the quill from my nose. Tiny bits of my flesh cling to the 
barbed end, leaving a raw, stinging wound. 

Still keeping the tarps aloft, Maysilee removes a spike from her cheek 
with a wince. “Once again, you were misinformed.” 


“1’m sorry. Nothing behaves naturally here.” She turns the tarps 
ninety degrees to get the quills away from our eyes, and we peek over the 
top. I spot my ax lying on the ground, freed by the mutt’s shaking. “Think 
my ax did any damage?” 

“Hard to tell,” she says. 

The porcupine goes on the rampage, stamping its feet and fussing like 
a toddler having a meltdown. Only, I know it’s nobody’s baby, just an 
abomination whipped up in a test tube to murder us. It begins to shake 
again. We duck below the tarps for cover as another round of quills peppers 
us. 

A cannon sounds, and I know one of the Newcomers has gone. Two 
remain alive. I don’t know what poison the quills carry, but my nose has 
swelled up like a ripe strawberry. If we give them the antidote, could they 
recover still? Should I drink some now? Is one quill enough to kill you? 

“We need to get to them,” I tell Maysilee. “Try the antidote.” 

“Yes, but I don’t think your stick’s going to be of much use,” she says. 

“T don’t think anything’s going to be of much use since it can shoot 
those quills.” I watch the creature continue its tantrum and think of Sid 
when he was a little one. “Maybe we’re going about this all wrong. Maybe 
we should try soothing it.” 

“Soothing it?” 

“Yeah, like when you try to calm down a baby. And then just get it to 
move on.” 

“Sing it a lullaby maybe?” Maysilee deadpans. 

“Maybe,” I counter. “Or give it a pacifier.” 

“T guess you catch more flies with honey than with vinegar.” Maysilee 
unearths the cans from her pack. “Olives or sardines?” 

“Well, the olives are easier to throw.” I pull one out and chuck it in 
front of the porcupine, which ignores it. I bounce a few more off its nose. 
The cries mellow to whimpers as it runs its snout along the forest floor, 
snarfing up the olives. “Who doesn’t love salt?” I lob another one a couple 
of feet ahead of the mutt, and it lumbers after it. Then another and another, 
stretching the distance each time, until I’ve got it ten yards outside the 
clearing. Out of olives, I throw the empty can as far into the woods as my 
strength allows and hear the porcupine crashing through the trees like a dog 
after a bone. 


A second cannon fires. Maysilee’s in the clearing in a flash, trying to 
tip the antidote between Hull’s lips. I check for Chicory’s and Buck’s 
pulses, just in case those cannons were for some unfortunate tribute 
elsewhere. Nothing. I join Maysilee, who’s managed to coax some of the 
syrup down Hull’s throat, and begin plucking quills from his leg to reduce 
the poison. 

“Come on, Hull,” she tells him. “You’ve got to drink this down. Come 
on, now.” He’s trying, his throat muscles rippling with the effort, but the 
antidote’s bubbling back and spilling down the side of his face. We 
continue, her coaxing, me plucking, until the cannon sounds, and even then, 
for a few minutes more because maybe someone as young and strong and 
deserving of life as Hull might find his way back to it. But he doesn’t and 
so, finally, we give up. 

The hovercraft approaches, a vulture hungry for the remains of our 
allies. From deep in the woods comes the sound of the porcupine chomping 
on the olive can, its targets long forgotten. Evening air cools my cheeks and 
diffuses the creature’s musk. Maysilee passes me the bottle and I take a 
swig of the antidote. I don’t know how much poison one quill delivers, but 
why take a chance? It tastes like somebody mixed chalk bits in buttermilk 
and forgot to stir it. 

Maysilee and I go around and shut each of the dead tributes’ eyes and 
try to arrange their bodies properly so their families’ last image won’t be of 
their contorted limbs. On our way out of the clearing, we collect the ax, our 
tarps, and their supplies. The claw begins its descent as we reach my 
backpack. We sit smack down in the clump of katniss, side by side, 
completely done in. 

I can barely hear her whisper. “One of us has to win this thing.” 

My eyes travel up the long stems to the arrow-shaped leaves, the 
white petals, concealing us from Capitol cameras. “Why’s that?” I whisper 
back. 

“One of us has to be the worst victor in history. Tear up their scripts, 
tear down their celebrations, set fire to the Victor’s Village. Refuse to play 
their game.” 

Reminds me of Pa. “Make sure they don’t use our blood to paint their 
posters?” 


“Exactly. We’ll paint our own posters. And I know just where we can 
get the paint.” In a gesture I remember from the schoolyard long ago, she 
extends her pinkie. “Swear it.” 

I encircle it with my own and our pinkies lock tight. They will never 
let me be a victor, not after my attempt to break the arena, but I can swear to 
try to keep her alive. “One of us paints the posters.” 

She rises and pulls me up. “Let’s check the supplies.” 

Our allies must have recently received a parachute, because one pack 
holds crackers and baked beans and an unexpected treat, raisins mixed with 
nuts and candy. There’s a blanket, too, and some more water jugs, one half- 
full. We decide to save the Cornucopia for tomorrow, so I start a fire. 
Maysilee heats up the beans, which we dine on in our own fashion, by fork 
or cracker, and then eat our treat, one morsel at a time. 

The anthem plays, and Ringina and Autumn appear, followed by 
Buck, Chicory, and Hull. 

“Five gone, five left,” I report. 

“You, me, Silka, Maritte, Wellie.” 

Wellie. Out there as night falls, dealing with all this alone. “We’ll find 
Wellie tomorrow.” 

“Right. We’ll find her,” says Maysilee. “It could work for her to win, 
too. You sleep first, Haymitch. I’ll keep watch.” 

No point in pretending I’m not running on empty. I wrap the blanket 
around her shoulders, make a hammock bed, and curl up in the mesh. “I 
sure could use that lullaby right about now.” 

She gives a surprisingly unladylike snort. “You don’t want to hear 
what’s running through my head. Started in the maze and just won’t quit.” 

“Got you an earworm, do you? Well, only cure for that is to pass it to 
someone else.” 

“Okay, then. You asked for it.” She begins to sing in a low voice. 


Ladybug, ladybug fly away home. 

Your house is on fire, your children are gone. 
All except one, who answers to Nan. 

She’s hiding under the frying pan. 


A grin crosses my face at the silly song from our childhood. “Well, I 
guess I brought that on myself. Good night, Sis.” 

I try to fall asleep, but Maysilee’s earworm has given me a brainworm 
... ladybug... fire... the flint striker... no, the blowtorch... fear... fly 
away. ... The pieces spin around in a tornado, then cling together like long- 
lost lovers. 

And I know exactly how we’re getting through that maze. 


“J 


The crumbs stick in my throat, so I take another swallow from the 
bottle to wash them down. What a luxury to wake up to a breakfast of fresh 
com bread, buttermilk, and peaches, instead of having to scrounge for stale 
leftovers. Maysilee had the food all laid out on a tarp, like a party. She 
folded a pair of handkerchiefs into flowers for napkins and even filled the 
bowl of the wineglass with some kind of pink blossom, likely poisonous, 
but undeniably decorative. 

Day 6. Somehow I’m still alive. I have no idea why the Gamemakers, 
under Snow’s direction, have not destroyed me already. Could I possibly be 
so popular that they’re keeping me around to please the audience? Are they 
planning some particularly spectacular ending for me? I don’t know, but I 
do know the arena is still begging to be broken. 

The parachute arrived while I slept, which was after Maysilee, as it 
turned out, because the brainworm cranked me up so I offered to take the 
first watch. If I can use the blowtorch to burn through the hedge, ladybug, 
ladybug, what will I find? Hopefully, a generator that’s susceptible to fire as 
well. Perhaps I can burn through the side to some kind of control panel 
and 


“Do we head for the Cornucopia or search for Wellie?” Maysilee asks. 


I help myself to a peach wedge, scooting the final one her way, as I 
determine the best strategy to get her to support my plan without actually 
telling her — and all the people watching us — what it is. Any way you 
Slice it, the Cornucopia’s no good, since it’s southerly. So I reply, “Wellie, 
don’t you think?” 

“T do. We can get by on the fish and potatoes today.” 

“Sure. And thanks for setting out the breakfast so fancy.” 

“Thought I’d kick off the day with a poster,” she says. 

I think about it. Her emphasis on manners, her pretty picnics. And I 
remember her words that first day on the train. “Listen, Louella, if you let 
them treat you like an animal, they will. So don’t let them.” This morning’s 
poster says, We’re civilized. We appreciate beautiful things. We’re as good 
as you. It’s an extension of her whole campaign to show the Capitol our 
value. Will they know that she’s referring to rebellion? I doubt it. They 
don’t know what Pa told me. A poster could merely be promoting us as 
tributes. And what harm is there in a few flower napkins anyway? 

“Nice paint job,” I say, and actually get a smile. 

After we pack up our belongings, we survey the woods. “Let’s head 
north again,” I say, and start walking. She follows me uncertainly. 

“Why?” 

“Because I’ve got a feeling Wellie would want to get as far from that 
volcano as possible.” 

“T don’t know. We’ve been all over that area with no sign of her.” 

“Exactly. It’s like Mags said. In the arena, you generally keep moving. 
And she hasn’t been there yet. Let’s just give it a try.” 

Maysilee looks unconvinced, but stays the course. For a mile or so 
anyway. “I don’t think we’re going to find her up this way,” she says finally. 

“Really? I think we’re on the right track.” 

“Why? The arena narrows to a point up north, right? Like it did in the 
south?” 

Never underestimate her observational skills. “Well, not right away.” 

“But it does. Wouldn’t Wellie just feel trapped?” 

“Which is exactly why the Careers won’t think to look around here. 
Just what you said.” I can feel myself skating on thin ice, but I try to project 
confidence, adding a little bounce to my step. 


Maysilee shoots me a look but trudges along for a while, thinking. 
Then she stops cold. “No, you’re wrong. Wellie would stand a much better 
chance in the meadow than she would up here. Little thing like her, she 
could disappear into that grass. It goes on for miles. Lay low and look for 
food at the Comucopia. They’d never find her. And even if she did come to 
the woods, she’s too smart to let herself get penned in like that. You know 
that. But you’re taking me north again, Haymitch. Why?” She folds her 
arms and waits. 

I’m going to have to tell her something or it’s all over. “The hedge. I 
think we should give it another look.” 

She shudders. “Ugh. Even if I had a quart of blood to spare, why on 
earth would we do that?” 

I hold out my hands to indicate the arena. “Because it has to end 
somewhere, right? The arena can’t go on forever.” 

“What do you expect to find?” 

“T don’t know. But maybe there’s something we can use.” 

“You mean, like something mechanical? Electrical?” 

“Maybe. Or if not that, maybe we can collect those ladybugs to use as 
a weapon ourselves. Make the maze into a trap for the Careers. Lure them 
in, drop a tarp of ladybugs on them, get them lost in there. It’s not easy to 
escape. I just think if we’re smart, we can use it for our own means.” I lift 
my brows, trying to telegraph that I can’t tell her everything, but it’s 
imperative. “I swear, do this and I’ll never ask you for anything else as long 
as I live.” 

She rolls her eyes. “Well, that’s a generous offer.” 

“Come on, Sis. I need this for my next poster.” How quickly that’s 
become our shorthand for defying the Capitol. 

She relents. “All right. But it better be a good one.” 

“Oh, ladybug, it will be,” I promise. 

My ears feel better today, clearer and more dependable. As we move 
on, I’m the first to pick up on the high-pitched whine coming from the west, 
an area I haven’t explored this far north. “You hear that?” 

“T do now,” Maysilee says. “I just thought it was part of the nature 
sounds here. Like the birds.” 

“That’s what worries me. Think of the size of the mosquito that would 
generate that.” I imagine a four-foot-long bloodsucker that would make the 


ladybugs seem like pranksters. 

“Tt’s a good way off. Let’s just keep our distance.” She takes a drink 
from a water jug and hands it over. 

There’s a confusing moment when the jug bursts, splashing water 
over both of us, before we make sense of the knife, the fast-approaching 
boots, and the undeniable truth that we’re being ambushed. Caught off 
guard, we bolt away from the Careers — for it sure isn’t Wellie — and 
straight toward the giant mosquito hum. I’m hoping we can scrape Silka 
and Maritte off on whatever produces it. 

If we could outrun them, it might be worth turning to make a stand, 
but those girls are so close on our heels, it seems pointless. They’d be upon 
us before we had time to defend ourselves. At the moment, only the trees 
we’re dodging between protect us from their deadly projectiles. It’s all I can 
do to pull my knife and hope for an opening. 

Suddenly, my feet lose traction and I’m on my butt, sliding into a 
clearing like I’ve hit a patch of ice. In that moment, my brain tries to make 
sense of an incomprehensible image. Two young Gamemakers in their 
signature white outfits hunch over an open berm covered in scarlet poppies. 
One wears a protective mask and holds some kind of drill, which emits the 
high-pitched whining. A third Gamemaker leans over a mop. By the look 
on their faces, I know the surprise is mutual. 

I skid to a stop a few feet in front of them in a puddle of something 
that brings to mind the slime that results when you boil okra. Maysilee 
whizzes right past the Gamemakers and latches on to a sapling at the edge 
of the berm, somehow staying upright. For a moment we all freeze, the 
shock universal. Then Silka bursts into the clearing and goes down, 
overturning a large bucket and sending a couple gallons of slime back onto 
the forest floor. 

The Gamemaker with the mop, who looks like he’s near our age, lets 
out an indignant “Hey! Watch it!” 

I know from experience that mopping’s a bottom-of-the-ladder job, so 
finding a Gamemaker at it seems bizarre. Like watching Plutarch 
Heavensbee peel potatoes or President Snow clean the hair out of a drain. 

Maritte, who apparently sensed some weirdness, comes to a halt at the 
edge of the clearing. “What’s going on? Are you Gamemakers?” she 
exclaims. 


The Gamemaker with the drill raises her mask and straightens up to 
her full height. “That’s right. And all four of you are in absolute violation of 
the rules. You must immediately withdraw or there will be repercussions.” 

“That’d be a lot more impressive if you weren’t shaking like a leaf,” 
observes Maysilee, fingering her blowgun. “You must be pretty expendable, 
you three, getting sent in here to tidy up for us.” 

There’s a pause while everybody considers the truth of this. Then all 
three Gamemakers make a break for the ladder that leads down to Sub-A. 

Maritte’s arm snaps back and I think I’m a goner, but the trident 
whistles over my head and lodges in the mopper, sending him into a pillow 
of poppies. Almost simultaneously, the woman with the drill grabs at the 
spot beneath her ear and comes away with a dart. She collapses as the final 
Gamemaker plunges headfirst through the open berm into Sub-A. It takes a 
few moments before we hear her skull crack on the concrete below. I can 
picture that floor, having run for my life down it, and find myself 
preoccupied with imagining the scene. 

Silka seems stunned into inertia as well. “What’d you do? Did you 
kill Gamemakers? They’ ll never let us win now!” 

Maysilee’s voice drips honey. “Still chasing that sad little dream, 
Silka?” She deftly loads another dart and glances at Maritte. “I’m almost 
sorry to kill you now, Maritte. What’s the deal with District Four, anyway? 
Hooking up with a bunch of Capitol toadies? Seems like you should be on 
our side.” 

Maritte hesitates, eyeing her trident with longing, then pulls her knife 
and begins to back away as Maysilee raises her blowgun. 

The hovercraft appears out of nowhere, dropping a bomb into the 
clearing that explodes in a cloud of dirt and tear gas. I grab Maysilee and 
we flounder through the woods, branches snapping our faces, stumbling 
over logs, as we try to escape the stuff. More bombs rain down, releasing 
more gas, Causing our eyes to burn and stream so badly, they’re useless. 
After a while, I can hear the explosions fade a bit. My guess is that the 
hovercraft could only track one set of tributes, and the Careers drew the 
short straw. 

Some inner compass leads me north and we outdistance the tear gas at 
the entrance of the hedge. I rip open one of the packs and alternate pouring 
water in Maysilee’s and my eyes. 


She’s so furious with me she’s spitting. “What the hell, Haymitch! 
Where were you? Why was Maritte the only one who had my back?” 

She’s right. I froze. Caught off guard by the unexpected encounter, 
intimidated by the white uniforms, whatever. I choked. 

“T don’t know what happened, Maysilee. Everything was coming at 
me so fast and I’m covered in slime and —” 

“You’re supposed to be my ally! Not her! Not that fish-eating, 
bootlicking, wished-she-could-pull-off-pin-curls piece of trash! You are!” 

Well, I feel terrible, and utterly lack a defense. My knife was in hand, 
the Gamemakers in easy reach. No one better positioned to kill them. 
Plutarch’s voice taunts me. “The question is, why didn’t you?” I can’t say 
I’m not a killer anymore. That leaves brainwashed or cowardly. Boy, I sure 
hope Sid didn’t see that. No, of course he didn’t. That’s one bit of action the 
audience will never view. They’ve surely been following Wellie, wherever 
she is. 

“You’re right,” I tell Maysilee. “You’re one hundred percent right and 
I’m sorry.” 

“Sorry?” she sneers. “Maybe you should be the victor, Haymitch. 
That would give you some time to grow a backbone.” 

Hello again, meanest girl in town. It only hurts because it’s true. 

She pulls out the can of sardines and yanks off the lid. “I’m eating this 
whole can. They’re mine.” She selects a fish and slurps it into her mouth. 
Boy, she really is mad, to be eating with her fingers. 

I let her hog the sardines, even though they smell delicious and my 
stomach’s growling. I’ve let her down and I need her help with the hedge. 
Would it matter if she knew about my bombing the tank and the mission to 
break the arena? Or would my feckless response to having the Gamemakers 
at our mercy erase it all? I don’t know, I just hope that once she has a belly 
full of fish, she’ ll give me a hand. 

After a few minutes, the slurping stops. Out of the comer of my eye, I 
watch the can slide into view. Three fish remain. I shake my head. She 
gives them a nudge in my direction. I’m so hungry I take them. 

“Was it because of your poster?” she asks, her voice still tight. 

She means, I think, was I avoiding confronting the Gamemakers 
because of the fabulous statement I’m planning to make. “I wish I could say 


it was, but no, I don’t think it was that. I don’t know what it was. Just 
programmed to be walked all over, I guess. You nailed it.” 

“No, what I said wasn’t fair. You’ve done your part. With Louella in 
the chariot. Getting a one in training. And, I suspect, whatever it is you’ve 
been up to that you’re so cagey about.” She dampens a handkerchief and 
cleans her hands. “You know, if we’d started picking off the Gamemakers 
before we got in here, we might’ve stood a chance.” 

I think of the moment with the knives in training, of the country as a 
whole, and how we just keep submitting to the Capitol’s rule. Why? It’s not 
a conversation I can have in front of the cameras, so I just concentrate on 
wiping the last bit of oil out of the can. Then I go about scraping the slime 
off my pants. At least it doesn’t smell bad, or burn my skin, or harden, 
which makes it one of the more benign things I’ve encountered in here. 

Maysilee’s breathing has returned to normal. I decide to give her five 
more minutes to recover before I push for the hedge. I watch as she traces a 
spiderweb on a bush. “Look at the craftsman-ship. Best weavers on the 
planet.” 

“Surprised to see you touching that.” 

“Oh, I love anything silk.” She rubs the threads between her fingers. 
“Soft as silk, like my grandmother’s skin.” She pops open a locket at her 
neck and shows me the photo inside. “Here she is, just a year before she 
died. Isn’t she beautiful?” 

I take in the smiling eyes, full of mischief, peering out of their own 
spiderweb of wrinkles. “She is. She was a kind lady. Used to sneak me 
candies sometimes.” 

Maysilee laughs. “You weren’t the only one. She got chewed out for 
that.” She cups the locket in her hands and examines her. “No one ever 
loved me more. I always hoped I’d look like her one day. Never going to 
see myself grow old, I guess.” 

“Maybe.” 

“Oh, no. Not after today.” She bites her lip. “She used to say, if I was 
afraid, ‘It’s okay, Maysilee, nothing they can take from you was ever worth 
keeping.’” 

“T know that song. Lenore Dove sings it.” 

“Tt’s a song?” Maysilee smiles. “Well, your gal’s full of surprises. 
Guess she got the jump on us after all.” 


“Doing what?” 

“Doing nothing.” She snaps the locket closed and stands. “Let’s visit 
your hedge, Mr. Abernathy.” 

“Well, okay, then, Miss Donner.” I break a branch that looks familiar 
off a nearby tree. “Hold this.” 

“What do I do?” 

I whip out the blowtorch, light her up, and nod at the hedge. “You’re 
my wingman. Anything with wings, you burn. Ready?” 

“As I'll ever be.” 

I charge through the hedge, making a beeline for the site of our 
previous breakout attempt. Firing up the blowtorch, I cut a straight line 
from my shoulder to the ground. Ladybugs begin to swarm as the greenery 
catches fire. Maysilee steps right in, waving her torch over the infestation. 
The mutts ignite, inflate, and burst open like dried corn kernels in hot 
grease. I carve another line parallel to the first, a couple of feet to the right. 
More bugs emerge from along the hedge and fly at us. Maysilee circles her 
torch, singing as she exterminates them: 


Ladybug, ladybug fly away home. 

Your house is on fire, your children are gone. 
All except one, who answers to Nan. 

She’s hiding under the frying pan. 


I join in as I continue to burn a door in the bushes, sweeping the flame 
from side to side. The stench of fried insects, chemicals, and burnt sugar 
surrounds us as the crackling of the holly leaves and bug shells underscores 
our song. The hedge puts off a prohibitive amount of heat, but we keep on, 
carving a tunnel through it. A few yards in, daylight peeks through from the 
other side. 

“Almost there!” I shout to Maysilee. 

My flame has begun to sputter. I lay on the trigger and the last layer of 
prickly leaves dissolves into ash. I drop the empty blowtorch to the ground 
and step out onto an even stretch of parched ground that leads to a dropoff. 
Maysilee emerges beside me, running her torch around the interior of our 
tunnel and tossing it in to scorch the last handful of bugs. She beats out the 
sparks on her shirt. 


“So, did we reach the end?” 

I walk to the edge of what turns out to be a cliff. A sheer drop of 
around a hundred feet meets a carpet of pointy rocks. Nestled among them 
sits a gigantic machine, purring like a contented cat. The generator. Only a 
stone’s throw away, but it might as well be on the moon. A sound leaves my 
body, something between a moan and a sigh. 

“Yeah,” I tell her. “This is the end of the road.” 


> 


Maysilee joins me at the cliff’s edge and stares down into the canyon. 
“That’s all there is to the arena, Haymitch. Let’s go back.” 

My latest scheme to disable the generator has led to yet another dead 
end. Of course it has. The absurdity of it all, the Games, the two failed 
arena plots, life in general, overwhelms me. Is there a third way to break the 
arena that I am missing? Maybe. Probably. But I can’t think of it at the 
moment. 

The biggest form of resistance I can come up with now is to refuse to 
go back through that hedge. Maysilee’s wrong: This stretch of ground is not 
the arena; it’s not pretty in the least. If the Gamemakers want me dead, they 
will have to follow me out here into the real world, which would be a 
victory of a sort. I will have outsmarted them in some small fashion. And at 
least the air is fresh and the sun is in the right spot. At any rate, I’m not 
going back into their poisonous cage. 

“No. I’m staying here,” I tell Maysilee. 

There’s a long pause. “All right, there’s only five of us left. May as 
well say good-bye now anyway. I don’t want it to come down to you and 


bb) 


me. 


Me neither. And the idea that I would be helping Maysilee or Wellie 
by continuing to participate in the Games seems laughable. All my allies die 
while the Gamemakers, apparently, are safe as houses with me. “Okay,” I 
Say. 

I hear her footsteps return to the hedge. 

A cannon fires. My head jerks around, as does hers. We each expected 
the other to be dead, and neither of us have time to hide the anguish on our 
faces. 

Maysilee swallows hard. “Four of us now.” 

She looks so lost it totals me. Maybe we two should stick it out 
together. How do I know? I feel like I constantly demonstrate poor 
judgment. I don’t feel qualified to choose between fried or scrambled eggs. 
Nothing makes sense in the face of the forty-four dead tributes plus Lou 
Lou and Woodbine gone from this world. 

“You sure you want to split up?” I ask. 

She doesn’t know either. I can tell, deep down, she’s as clueless as 
me. There’s no good rule book on what to do in our situation. No brilliant 
strategy. 

“The only thing I’m sure about right now is I don’t want anyone to 
steal our potatoes,” she admits. “I’ll get them. Then we’ll weigh our 
options, all right?” 

I lift my hands in defeat. “Well, if you’re going to drag the potatoes 
into it, how can I say no?” 

Maysilee shrugs and disappears into the hedge. I walk along the cliff, 
wondering if there’s any way I might be able to climb down and reach the 
generator. My foot inadvertently knocks a reddish pebble over the side, and 
I listen for how long it takes to hit rock bottom. Too long. I’d never make it. 
I step away and plunk down on my butt, another plan busted, when 
suddenly the pebble flies back over the edge and bounces to a stop beside 
me. 

I examine it, confused by its reappearance. Could someone have 
thrown it back? Doesn’t seem likely. I hop up, collect a nearby rock, and 
toss it at the generator, tracking its descent. A few yards above the machine, 
it inexplicably bounces back up to me, reversing its trajectory and landing 
right in my hand, a little warmer than before. It must be, it has to be, some 
sort of force field positioned over the generator. Easier than stretching a 


tarp, I guess. A way of protecting it from the elements, wildlife, and, as it 
turns out, a rascal of a tribute. I suppose it’s not impossible that a rebel 
might try to sabotage the thing, but it seems unlikely they’d make their way 
to the middle of nowhere. Although, here I am. But even if I dropped a 
boulder down there, I couldn’t touch the thing. 

Honestly, my luck’s so bad, I can’t help laughing. 

That’s when I hear Maysilee begin to scream. In a flash, I’m on my 
feet and thrashing through the smoky tunnel in the hedge. I spy bright 
patches of pink up ahead, hear honking, not unlike Lenore Dove’s geese. 
My ax is out of my belt, drawn and ready as I leave the holly bushes for a 
whirlwind of feathers. 

The two dozen waterbirds remind me of ones I’ve seen at the lake. 
Long-legged. Beaks like sword blades — thin, narrow, and deadly. Not cool 
blue gray, not paper white, but the color of the bubblegum sold at the 
Donners’ sweetshop. They dive again and again at Maysilee, who’s 
kneeling on the ground, trying to use a tarp as protection while she 
vehemently slices at them with her dagger. A couple of dead birds lie on the 
ground, but they have taken their toll. Blood blossoms from her cheek, her 
chest, the palm of her hand. Like Ampert’s squirrels, they have no interest 
in me. Programmed to target Maysilee in a very personal punishment. I 
hack away at the mutts with my ax, piling up a collection of rosy wings and 
legs like cattail stems, but they badly outnumber us. 

A bird swoops down at a sharp angle, driving its beak through her 
throat. As it withdraws, I decapitate it, slicing through the skinny neck. I 
realize Maysilee’s beyond recovery when the flock clears out. Falling to my 
knees beside her, I reach for her sound hand, which grasps mine like a vise. 
Her wounded one curls up and rests in her nest of necklaces, which lays in a 
pool of blood. Through the rasping of her breath, she attempts to speak, but 
the last mutt silenced her voice with its wicked beak. Mine seems silenced 
as well, as no words of comfort or hope or apology make it out. I just stare 
into those burning blue eyes, letting her know she’s not dying alone. She’s 
with family. She’s with me. 

In the last moments, she releases her grip enough to lock her pinkie 
around mine. Looking, I think, for a final confirmation of the promise we 
made to each other. I nod so she knows I understand and that I will try my 


best to bring the Capitol down, although I have never felt so powerless in 
my entire life. 

And then she’s gone to wherever people go when they die. 

She hasn’t begged or pleaded; she retained her fury and defiance. 
Although for me, a person’s desperation at the end is not a measure of their 
life, I know it mattered to her. Maysilee leaves the world the way she 
wanted, wounded but not bowed. I think about cleaning her up, but this is 
her final poster, and I won’t tidy it up to make it easier for those monsters in 
the Capitol to sleep tonight. 

The hovercraft slides into view and the cannon booms. I remove her 
blowgun and one of her necklaces — the copper medallion with the 
flower — as a reminder of her strength. 

Too numb to do much else, I scoot back about ten feet and prop 
myself against a tree, clutching her token to my chest. When the Capitol 
realizes I’m going nowhere, they lower the claw. I imagine the shot: my 
stricken face, visible through the metal talons as they lift Maysilee’s body 
up into the sky, leaving me all alone. 

If something attacked me right now, I’d let it take me. I know, I know, 
I just made a deathbed promise to Maysilee to carry on the fight, but I can’t 
seem to rally. I pat her necklace against my pants to wipe off the blood — 
these black clothes just never stop giving — and hook the fancy clasp 
behind my neck to hang there with its friends. I’ve got my own jewelry 
collection now, what with District 9’s sunflower, Wyatt’s scrip coin, and 
Lenore Dove’s warring songbird and snake. Why, I’m almost as decorated 
as Miss Donner herself. 

The blowgun seems loaded with a single dart. I dropped the ball not 
taking the pouch and poison vial, but at least I’ve got one shot. It makes me 
feel nervous keeping a poisonous dart so close to my face, so I attach it to 
my belt with a bit of vine. 

Good-bye, Maysilee Donner, who I loathed, then grudgingly 
respected, then loved. Not as a sweetheart or even a friend. A sister, I’d 
said. But what is that exactly? I think about our journey — everything from 
sniping with her in those early days after the reaping to battling those pink 
birds. I guess that’s my answer. A sister is someone you fight with and fight 
for. Tooth and nail. 


A parachute floats through the trees and lands before me. I hope it’s 
not bean and ham hock soup. Pretty sure I couldn’t get that down right now. 
When I open the attached basket, I find two containers. A basin holds 
strawberry ice cream, which seems like it ought to have some significance I 
can’t pinpoint at the moment. The second, a lidded mug, holds steaming 
black coffee. Maysilee’s beverage of choice. I take a sip, scalding my 
tongue. Then another. 

The ice cream jogs my memory. We’re in the kitchen at the tribute 
apartment and Proserpina’s been blubbering about her grade. Her sister, 
Effie, told her a positive attitude’s ninety-seven percent of the battle. And 
Maysilee ... Maysilee had said... 

“T’Il try to keep that in mind in the arena. More ice cream?” 

Mags and I tried not to laugh, because Proserpina wasn’t born evil; 
she just had a lot of unlearning to do. I’m not sure what Mags is trying to 
impart now. A directive to stay positive? A reminder of Maysilee’s sass? 
Just a delicious bowl of ice cream? Maybe all three. I pick up the spoon and 
take a bite. Tears come, and I let them fall, unchecked, while I empty the 
basin. It’s okay to cry around Mags. 

The sun closes in on the horizon as I slowly sip the cooling coffee, 
which helps to clear my head. There’s no Maysilee left to protect now. I 
guess I should return to the cliff for my final poster. I decide to consolidate 
my remaining supplies in Maysilee’s backpack. I add a half jug of water 
and store the potatoes in the basin for safekeeping. As I tuck in the spare 
handkerchiefs, I notice a slit in the interior wall of her pack. Wiggling my 
fingers through the opening, I encounter a bumpy plastic pack. I’d forgotten 
about the potato-light kit. I guess she didn’t reveal it when we inventoried 
our supplies since it wasn’t legal. Not that that much worries me now. So 
much has gone down with blown-up tanks and dead Gamemakers that a few 
rogue wires and coins hardly seem worth mentioning. 

I start thinking about the Gamemakers we encountered. They were 
none of them very old. The guy with the mop, early twenties tops. Were 
their deaths painful? Do they leave people behind? Are their parents, 
friends, and neighbors weeping for them as ours do when they lose us? Will 
their loved ones ever know how they really died, or will an accident be 
fabricated to conceal the Capitol’s incompetence? Body doubles probably 
won’t be practical. 


As I stow my green pack in the bushes, the oppressive opening notes 
of the anthem drone from the sky. First there’s Maritte, then Maysilee. 
Doesn’t seem random. They’ve been eliminated swiftly, in punishment for 
killing their keepers. By abstaining, Silka and I have been rewarded with a 
few more hours of life. 

And what about Wellie? I haven’t had time to focus on her much, but 
she’s out there, too. Maysilee indicated that if neither of us survived, it 
could work for Wellie to carry on the fight. I think about how poised and 
articulate she was at the interview. She’d be a far better, far smarter, far 
more convincing victor to represent district rights than a cocky, selfish 
rascal, even if he had a chance of surviving, which he doesn’t. Is that what 
my final hours should be devoted to? Guarding Wellie from Silka and the 
Gamemakers’ mutts? Making sure that crown winds up on her head, not a 
Career’s? Yes, I’m certain this is what Maysilee would’ve wanted me to do, 
if she’d known the whole story. 

If I’m going to protect Wellie, I’m going to have to find her. Really, at 
this point, there’s only one way. If I encounter Silka, good. I’ll dart her. 

“Wellie!” I holler. “Wellie!” 

In the fading rays of the sun, I begin my search, heading south toward 
the meadow. Seems so lonely here without Maysilee. I didn’t notice the 
solitude so much before I had her as a partner, but now the darkness presses 
in on me, raw and scary. 

“Wellie!” 

Feels like I’m the only person left alive in the world. Being close to 
death doesn’t help. I reach for Lenore Dove for solace, knowing she must 
be keeping vigil at her television set, living through my last hours with me. 
It’s much worse for her, really. The helplessness. Thinking of her watching 
me makes me want to be brave, or at least appear to be. “Wellie! Where are 
you? It’s Haymitch!” I hope Lenore Dove will stay close to Sid when I’m 
gone, keep teaching him the stars and things, making sure he isn’t — 

What was that? 

My ears have picked up a strange sound behind me, out of sync with 
the nighttime background noise of the woods. I stand still, listening hard. 

Ring, ring! 

There it is again. Not natural. Man-made. Decidedly metal on metal. I 
know that sound from a summer day long ago. I was still young enough to 


have free time. A bunch of us — me, Lenore Dove, Blair, Burdock, and a 
couple of the McCoy kids — were playing freeze tag in a field. We 
stumbled upon a Peacekeeper’s bicycle hidden in the bramble bushes by the 
road. Sometimes they use them to get around town, deliver messages and 
such. Looked like someone had dropped it quick and was probably coming 
back for it. But in the meantime, it was ours. 

Bicycles are coveted in District 12. A few of the merchants’ kids in 
town have them. I remember Maysilee and Merrilee had matching pink 
ones, and sometimes rode them around the square to the envy of all. But 
they were a pipe dream for kids in the Seam. For us to find a Peacekeeper’s 
bike so shiny and unattended was like a litter of kittens rolling smack-dab 
into a patch of catnip. We swore one another to secrecy, posted guards, and 
for the next week, every one of us learned to ride. It was a fine machine, 
well built, smooth, with brakes on the handlebars and a bright silver bell to 
signal your approach. It disappeared then; probably the Peacekeeper came 
back to collect it, but it had never been ours to keep. 

Ring, ring! 

That’s a bicycle bell, beyond a doubt. The one Maysilee wove into 
Wellie’s token necklace back in the gym. She’s heard my calls and this is 
her answer. I shut up and follow the bell. It leads back north. I feel like I’m 
retracing my steps to where Maysilee died. 

Ring, ring! 

I come to a halt at the base of a large tree. The bell gives a tinny ring 
from on high. “It’s okay, Wellie,” I say. “I’m here. You can come down.” I 
wait, but there’s no response. No crackling of branches or rustling of leaves. 
Not a whisper from my ally. “Wellie? You there?” The only possible 
alternative, Silka, does not impress me as someone who could scamper up 
as high as I judge that bell to be. And if Silka had gotten close enough to 
steal Wellie’s token, I’d have seen another dove in the sky. I begin to climb. 

Up, up, up I go, so far that I begin to wonder if I have the right tree. 
The boughs thin out, and I have to plant my boots against the trunk or risk 
snapping them off. When I do reach her, she’s so still that I almost miss her. 
She lies along a slender branch, belly down, like a possum in the moonlight, 
her bell tucked under her chin, a child-sized knife clutched in one hand. 

“Hey, Wellie.” 


Her cracked lips move slightly, but no sound comes out. She has the 
shrunken, glassy-eyed look I know from tough times in the Seam. Another 
casualty of the Capitol’s weapon of choice: starvation. I need to move her 
down before she rolls right off that branch and get some food into her. But 
she’s so fragile, I don’t see how I can manage it, especially at night. I give 
her a sip of water from the jug, and it spills out the side of her mouth. 
There’s no way I’m getting raw potato down her. 

I stay with the water. “Try to swallow it, Wellie,” I plead. She 
manages to get down a few mouthfuls and then drifts off. 

The moon slips behind a cloud, leaving us momentarily in darkness, 
and I hug the trunk for stability until the pale light returns. The air seems to 
be growing heavier in general; are they prepping a rainstorm? The idea of 
being trapped up this high in the pitch black while the bark gets slippery 
scares me, but I can’t abandon Wellie. I could get some sparks going with 
my flint striker, but how would I build a fire up here? I fumble around in 
Maysilee’s pack, looking for something to use as fuel, when I come upon 
the potato battery kit. Theoretically, I could make my own light. It probably 
wouldn’t produce much if it did, but it might be of some comfort. 

A faint rumble of thunder prompts me to try. I wedge myself 
awkwardly between the trunk and a branch and use the backpack as my 
worktable. Beetee said that a potato shouldn’t be eaten after it was a battery, 
so I restrict myself to using one, saving the last for Wellie’s breakfast. I cut 
a potato in half, remove each component from the plastic bag, and strain to 
replicate Beetee’s demonstration. Wrap the copper coins and zinc nails in 
wire, leaving a tail, and stick them in the potato halves. This takes a while 
given the limited light. There’s a bad moment when one of the coins slips 
through my fingers and escapes to the forest floor. I’m about to give up 
when I remember Maysilee’s medallion and work it out of the woven cord. 
After more than a few false starts, I attach the final wire to a tiny light bulb 
and am rewarded with a dim glow. In most circumstances, it would be 
negligible, but in the gloom of the arena, it feels like life itself. Wellie’s 
eyes flutter open, lock on it, and she gives a little sigh. 

The first raindrops patter onto the leaves while I’m looking for 
somewhere close by to rig a hammock. The branches don’t feel sturdy 
enough. Instead, I position a tarp to keep Wellie dry and wrap Maysilee’s 
blanket around her multiple times. I cut off some strips of tarp and tie them 


along her legs and midsection, securing her to the branch. She doesn’t seem 
to notice, just fixates on her light. 

No moving her until morning, so I arrange a second tarp and a few 
straps for myself. It rains cats and dogs for a while, turns misty, and then 
the clouds withdraw. I’m dozing off when something catches in the leaves 
above my head. The parachute brings a cup of warm vanilla pudding and a 
packet of balls, each wrapped in crinkly festive paper. Chocolate. 

Someone in the Capitol still has a heart. 

With patience, I coax the pudding into Wellie, bit by bit. And although 
we lose half to dribbles, the other half makes it into her belly. Then I break 
a chocolate ball in two with my teeth and slide a piece into her mouth. She 
gives a little smack of her lips. 

I allow myself a ball or two as well. Chocolate’s pricey stuff in the 
Seam. Definitely for birthdays or special occasions. This stuff’s top-of-the- 
line, creamy and sweet and rich. If it’s the last thing I ever eat, I’d be okay 
with that. 

I shake off my tarp to repurpose it as a blanket and have almost dozed 
off again when I hear Wellie begin to cry. I reach to console her, but she’s 
fast asleep. The weeping comes from far below at the base of the tree. 
Silka? Who else could it be? She isn’t trying to hunt us, just huddled against 
the trunk. I didn’t peg her for a crier. Of course, I’ve still probably got 
tearstains on my cheeks from Maysilee’s passing. I’m sure Silka has plenty 
to cry about, too. Even if she’s the clear front-runner in the Games, we’ve 
all of us got enough dead kids to mourn for a lifetime. 

I become intensely aware of the three of us, huddled around this tree, 
the last trio of human heartbeats in the arena. Sad, desperate, but also a rare 
moment of district unity in the Games. You know what would make it even 
better? I drop a handful of chocolate balls into the night. A startled sound. 
The sobs soften to sniffles. A candy wrapper crackles. Quiet. 

Not a bad poster, all in all. 


“J 


Snatches of sleep breed nightmares, and the dawn finds me weak and 
weary, like the guy in Lenore Dove’s poem. The arena leaves no time to 
properly grieve anyone and I’m left feeling cheated, shallow, and 
coldhearted. Louella, Ampert, Maysilee, everybody deserves far better. I 
just can’t generate it. 

I check on Wellie, who sleeps peacefully on her branch. No need to 
wake her yet. 

Silka’s gone. Not that I expected some grand alliance forming 
between us. She had a vulnerable moment, accepted the chocolate, and then 
probably felt ashamed for doing so. I’m guessing District 1 doesn’t reward 
its Careers for being only human. Yeah, Silka’s out there and likely nearby 
unless she’s scavenging for food. She could’ve thought to try the 
Cornucopia or gone back for Maritte’s supplies. But she knows where we 
are and she’Il be back to kill us. 

I reach up over my tarp to rub the gunk from my eyes and notice 
black smudges on my fingers. Not sure where those came from; they didn’t 
really register in the dark last night. I don’t think it’s the tree bark, 
though... or the tarp .. . something with the potato battery? It doesn’t 
matter really. Unless... 


Suddenly, a whole bunch of light bulbs turn on all at once. Me 
working the copper flower medallion out of Maysilee’s necklace. The black 
residue on my hands after I rigged the fuse at the tank. And Beetee’s final 
words to me at the buffet — 

“And if Ampert fails to show — we’ve also replaced the —” 

But then Wellie had walked up and I never learned what else besides 
the District 9 tokens had been replaced. A spare. A backup to Ampert’s lone 
fuse. Is that what I have around my neck in the guise of Maysilee’s token 
necklace? Pretending to focus on the sunrise, I nonchalantly rub a bit of the 
braided cord between my thumb and index finger, then casually fiddle with 
the water jug lid. No question. The smudges came from her token. 

One last chance. One final opportunity to ruin the Games in a way the 
Capitol can’t conceal. I can’t be one hundred percent sure until I can 
unwind the cord and check for the blasting cap, but if I’m right, I must not 
waste this good-bye gift. 

I lean back against the trunk, trying to look indifferent, while my 
mind races. What possible targets remain? The tank’s blown, the 
generator’s off-limits, access to Sub-A will be hard to finagle a second time. 
That leaves the Cornucopia. And why not? Isn’t it the very symbol of their 
despicable show? And isn’t the gesture left to me purely symbolic, given 
that the machinery lies beyond my grasp? I could still blow a nice, big hole 
in the side of their shiny, golden horn. Leave it smoldering and defaced in 
the center of their pretty little meadow. A twisted and ugly reminder of the 
history of the Hunger Games. A horn of plenty for the few. Desperation for 
many. Destruction for all. 

Once again, the trick will be to get them to show it on-screen. But 
with only three of us left, it just might be possible. If I could revive Wellie a 
bit more, get enough calories in her that I’d be sure she could last, then tuck 
her somewhere safe, I could stage a showdown with Silka at the 
Cornucopia. Try and take out her and the Cornucopia in the same explosion. 
If we were directly beside it, how could they not show it? And then, if I 
survive, Snow will have the Gamemakers kill me, and Wellie will get the 
crown. 

A peek of her haggard little face gives me pause. Wellie’s on the brink 
of starving to death. Even if she can hang on, the lack of food leaves her 
vulnerable to a host of other dangers, from physical weakness to 


dehydration to illness. We’ve got some chocolate left, but dumping that 
straight into her shrunken stomach might result in the reverse of the 
intended effect. There’s the last potato — it’s good and bland but it needs 
baking. All right. That’s my priority. Bake the potato. Feed up Wellie. Hide 
Wellie. Lure Silka to the Cornucopia. Blow her up with the Cornucopia. 
How could anything go wrong? 

Well, here’s a problem for starters: After the tank incident, if the 
Gamemakers see me unwinding a token, I’m going to have every mutt in 
the arena coming at my head. I need an off-camera moment. 

No time like the present. As if blocking the sun, I pull the tarp up over 
my head. With minimal movements, I unclasp Maysilee’s necklace and 
unravel the cord. I get a boost when I expose the blasting cap, securely 
attached to the end. Perhaps I’m not entirely hopeless. After wrapping the 
fuse tightly around it, I conceal it in my pocket and rub my hands really 
good on my pants to clean them. Will the Gamemakers notice the token’s 
disappearance? When Wellie wakes, maybe I should pretend I lost it. It 
could have gone the way of the brass medallion. Then again, drawing 
attention to its absence might backfire. 

I do an inventory of my equipment. Fuse. Check. Blasting cap. Check. 
Explosive. Check. Flint striker. Check. I’ve got everything I need, even a 
handful of oily candy wrappers for tinder. Eager to get going, I toss off the 
tarp, give a big stretch, and free myself from the tarp strips. 

Wellie’s eyes fly open. She takes me in, as if weighing my worth, then 
frowns. 

“Don’t leave me again,” she whispers. 

No doubt I am, from where she sits, the great abandoner of the 
Newcomers. She’s not wrong. I had bigger fish to fry, but she’s still not 
wrong. 

I try to sound chipper. “Hey, Wellie. How about I climb down and 
bake you a potato? Think you could handle that?” 

“Don’t leave me.” 

“Well, I’m pretty sure Silka’s in the vicinity. Feels like you’d be safer 
up here.” 

“No. Can’t be alone again.” She begins to struggle against her 
restraints. “I’ll follow you.” 


|? 


“Okay, okay!” I settle her back down. “Let me untie you.” This is not 
ideal, but I can’t risk her trying to climb down after me; she’d certainly fall 
to her death. I carefully remove the tarp strips and the blanket and store all 
our stuff in the pack. “I’m going to need you to hold on. Can you do that?” 
She nods, but when she puts her arms around my neck, they’re as limp as 
boiled noodles. It will have to be over my shoulders. “Better try the miner’s 
carry,” I tell her, tossing the pack to the ground. I gingerly hoist her up and 
around my shoulders, getting a tight grip on the arm that falls across my 
chest, the way we’re taught to do if we have to haul the injured out of the 
mine after an accident. There was never much to her, but I doubt she can tip 
the scale at sixty pounds now. I inch our way down the tree, nearly falling 
twice as branches snap beneath my boots. When I reach the forest floor, I 
gently lay her on the pine needles. 

Giving her a chocolate ball to gnaw on, I fashion a nest for her out of 
the blanket. When I check her for fever, her forehead’s as cool as marble. 
“You cold?” 

“A little,” she says. I note the purple tint to her lips. 

“Well, a fire will warm you up. And then we can bake your potato.” 

A cursory examination of the local brush shows that this will prove a 
challenge. Last night’s rain, while relatively brief, fell heavily, dampening 
the available fuel. In a few hours, the sun will have lent me a hand, but at 
the moment, dry fuel seems scarce. Now I’m going to have to forage for 
some that’s been protected by thick overhanging limbs or rock formations. 

What to do with Wellie? Carry her? That will be difficult if I’m 
collecting wood. Cross my fingers and hope that Silka’s far off? Too risky. 
That means trying to hide her. “Wellie, I’m going to have to travel a bit for 
fuel.” 

“Don’t leave me.” 

“Tt won’t be for long and I won’t go far. I’1l make sure you’re good 
and hidden.” 

“Don’t.” 

“We need fire. It’s okay. Look what I’ve got for you.” I hang 
Maysilee’s blowgun around her neck. “This was Maysilee’s. It’s all loaded. 
All you do is take a deep breath, blow really hard in this end, anda 
poisonous dart comes flying out. She killed Panache with this. Saved my 
life.” 


“Maysilee left us, too,” says Wellie sadly. 

“No, she got separated looking for Lou Lou. Couldn’t get back to you. 
She’d want you to have this. She told me she thought you’d be a good 
victor.” 

“She did?” Her eyes widen. “What did she mean? A good victor?” 

Great question. “It means, I think, that you never stop being a 
Newcomer.” 

Wellie tears up, then steels herself with determination. “I can do that. 
For the others,” she says. “Hide me.” She reaches out her arms for me to 
carry her. 

Nearby, I discover a tree almost hidden by cascading wild grapevines. 
Tucking Wellie behind them and arranging the leafy curtain is the best I can 
do, with the dual pressures of time and geography. She’ ll await my return, 
armed with her paring knife and her blowgun. “Remember,” I tell her. 
“You’ve only got one dart, so make it count. Now, sit tight and I’ll be back 
before you know I’m gone.” 

I intend this to be true, but as I search in a widening circle, I feel my 
confidence waning. The available wood would smoke like crazy even if I 
could get it lit with my handful of candy wrappers, which is doubtful. The 
whole idea of baking a potato loses its appeal. Perhaps if I slice it paper thin 
while it’s raw, she’d be able to stomach it. What would really help — hello, 
sponsors! — would be a nice basket full of food. I mean, what are they 
saving it for? Surely, two of the last three tributes in the arena have enough 
in their combined accounts for a cup of chicken back broth. I think Mags 
must read my mind, because as I’m making a beeline back to my ally, a 
parachute practically brushes my nose as it floats to my boots. I squat down 
to tear it open and find an ornate picnic basket. A card of thick paper rests 
atop it with the words couRTESY OF THE CAPITOL. What isn’t, in the arena? 
Inside, nestled in a snowy linen napkin, I find a pitcher. A chill goes 
through me as I lift it into the sunlight. The white cylinder resting in the 
Spiral staircase. The golden eagle perched on the lid. My thumb depresses 
its tail, flipping it open, revealing the cool, creamy milk. If this is not the 
pitcher from Plutarch’s library, it’s an exact replica. 

I stuff the card in my pocket and return the pitcher to the basket to 
conceal the trembling in my hands. What am I to make of this new arrival? 
There are only two possibilities, as opposite as day and night. 


On the positive-thinking side, this could be a genuine gift from 
Plutarch by way of Mags. A pint of sustenance, a draft of encouragement. It 
could mean, Well done, Haymitch. Through the fog of propaganda, the 
card-stacking, and the lies, I can see that you succeeded with your mission. 
You did your bit. And if the tank explosion failed to drown the brain entirely, 
which is not your fault, it threw everything into a tailspin. Take this milk to 
Wellie, keep her alive, play out your hand as best you can. 

But on the flip side, maybe Mags had nothing to do with this gift, and 
the evil message goes like this: Greetings from your president. You didn’t 
think I saw your little stunt with the milk pitcher in the library, but you were 
wrong. Because I see everything. Your bombs, your plots, even your flint 
striker from your pretty little bird. And now you have a choice. Do you 
drink the milk? Give it to your sickly ally? Pour it into the ground? Because 
naturally you suspect it’s laced with poison. What do you do, Haymitch 
Abernathy? You must know that the eyes of Panem, and mine in particular, 
are watching your every move. 

Yes, everyone is watching. If I do not immediately take this milk back 
to Wellie and attempt to save her, it will look as if I’m playing nice to her 
but actually trying to kill her so that I can be one step closer to being 
District 12’s second victor. However, I am almost certain that it’s poisonous 
and came from Snow. I don’t believe Plutarch would be careless enough to 
link himself so publicly to me since I bombed the tank. Surely, many 
people, many Gamemakers on the inside, are familiar with this symbol of 
the golden staircase that’s so often displayed in the Heavensbee mansion. 
Matchy-matchy. Given that he was assigned to cover the District 12 
tributes, it’s probably against the rules for Plutarch to back us. Like 
Proserpina said it was for her and Vitus. 

It’s from Snow, this milky death. The fate I have been trying to defy 
ever since I saw that perverse birthday cake on the train has come home to 
roost like the raven in the poem, forever perched above my chamber door. I 
am completely in Snow’s power and his to manipulate. His puppet. His 
pawn. His plaything. It is his poster I am painting. His propaganda. I am 
trapped into doing his bidding in the Hunger Games, the best propaganda 
the Capitol has. 

My pa must be rolling in his grave. 


The proud district alliance, the Newcomers, will never be allowed to 
win. Wellie will die of poisoning, or starvation, or Career. Silka, that 
Capitol wannabe, will take the crown. 

And me? There’s only one thing left for me to do if I don’t want to die 
as a traitor to the districts — as Wellie’s killer by neglect since I refuse to 
go poison her — and Snow knows it. He has followed my every move 
down to this final resolution and awaits my inevitable surrender. I must 
drink the milk. The time is now. Game over. 

I retrieve the pitcher, flip the lid, and examine the contents. Every cell 
in my body resists capitulating to this end. I’m wondering if I could pretend 
to trip and drop the pitcher, at least postponing the moment of Silka’s 
victory, when the cannon fires. I freeze, mystified. Was this not the moment 
for the president to savor my defeat? What’s going on? Who has interfered 
with his game plan? 

I hurl the pitcher aside, hearing it crack open on a rock, as I take off 
for the wild grapevines. As promised, I am not far. I’m hoping against hope 
that somehow Silka has met a mutty end. That would make everything so 
much simpler. 

Rounding a final clump of saplings, I freeze in horror at what awaits. 
Silka stands like a statue, her snot-green outfit splattered in bright red. In 
her right hand, her ax. Her left holds Wellie’s head, eyes still open, mouth 
agape. The only movement, the only sound, comes from the blood dripping 
into the pine needles on the forest floor. Wellie’s body lies crumpled in a 
heap a few feet away. The shiny silver bicycle bell. The blowgun. The 
child-sized boots. The tiny knife in her bird claw. Dove-colored feathers. 
Headless baby chick. I could live ten thousand years and never erase this 
sight from my memory. 

“What did you do?” I hiss. 

Silka makes an effort to focus on me. She holds up Wellie’s head 
defensively. “She attacked me.” 

Now I notice the poison dart hanging harmlessly from Silka’s blousy 
Sleeve. Wellie tried to protect herself. Upheld the Newcomer honor. 
Probably barely had the air to get the dart free of the gun. I abandoned her, 
as she feared I would. Blinded by my desire to paint my poster, I left the 
real treasure unattended. 


“She had to go. You have to go,” Silka continues. “It’s the only way I 
get back to my people.” 

“We all have people,” I say. “You think yours will ever be able to 
forget this? I know mine won’t.” Write me off, Sid. Disown me. Spit when 
you hear my name. Failing at breaking the arena is nothing in the face of 
this. 

“Tl tell how it was, when I get home,” she says. 

“Oh, you’re not going home, Silka.” I pull the ax from my belt. We’re 
neither of us going home. I will kill her, and Snow will kill me. These 
Games will have no victor. 

The second Quarter Quell poster. 

It helps, the way she tosses Wellie’s head aside, with no regard or 
compassion for her even in death. Helps, too, to see a smear of chocolate 
high on her cheekbone, where she must have wiped the tears away last 
night during our one-sided truce. And finally, it helps when she says, “I will 
be the one to honor the Capitol!” 

Ax to ax, we go at it. I wish I could claim greater speed or strength, 
but we’re fairly matched. Her training’s superior, but I have an advantage 
she can never hope for. Those thirty-one allies I boasted of to the Head 
Gamemaker? I can feel every one of them at my back. 

Her first stroke comes straight down at my head, as if to cleave my 
body into two equal parts. I just manage to block it. My counter-attack clips 
her leg, drawing blood. A flicker of surprise crosses her face. She didn’t 
expect I could get through her defenses. Well, I may not be trained, Miss 
Silka, but I bet I’ve spent more time wielding an ax than you have, and I’ve 
got the white liquor and clean laundry to prove it. My time chopping up the 
arena after Ampert’s death didn’t hurt either. This weapon feels right at 
home in my hands. 

Barbaric. Brutal. Bloody. There’s no way to pretty up what follows. 
As we rain blows on each other, some begin to connect. Our ax heads lock, 
we grapple, and she knees me so hard I see stars. I dodge an attack that 
buries her ax into a tree trunk, and as she struggles to free it, my blade bites 
into the flesh near her hip. A few moves later, she spins toward me and 
slices my thigh. As our weapons entangle, I bash her in the face with the 
handle, knocking out a couple teeth. But eventually, Silka’s training pays 
off. When she wields the ax over her head in an intricate looping pattern, 


I’m distracted. The blade comes down unexpectedly, and before I have time 
to recoil, she opens a gash across my gut. 

I gasp. She strikes again, knocking my ax from my grip. My hands 
find the damage. It’s bad. She’s coming at me. I turn to flee and she traps 
me in a headlock, cutting off my wind. Black flecks pepper the edges of my 
vision, I can feel myself disappearing when my eyes land on Wellie’s 
decapitated body. I cannot let Silka win. In a last-ditch effort, I yank my 
knife from my belt and drive it back over my shoulder. A shriek. Neck 
released, I take to my heels, oblivious to whatever harm I’ve done her. 

Both hands pressed against my wound, I zigzag through the woods, 
knowing I have to make a stand, certain this is impossible, crazed with pain 
and fear. Branches whip my face, roots catch my boots as I ricochet from 
one tree to the next. My one goal is to increase the space between Silka’s 
screams and my being. But she is coming. My legs are beginning to buckle 
when the smell of burnt insects alerts me and I find myself at the opening to 
the holly hedge. Ladybug, ladybug, here I am again! But now their home 
offers both refuge and a chance to regroup. Perhaps that Capitol-loving, 
rule-abiding, snot-green-wearing Career will be afraid to follow me beyond 
the established boundaries of the arena. 

As the hot air rising from the canyon washes over me, I stagger to the 
cliff’s edge. Unable to run any farther, I turn to face my opponent. 
Boundary or no, Silka stumbles out of the hedge after me. Now I can assess 
the damage my knife did, own the empty socket where I gouged out her 
eyeball. Seems minor compared to keeping my innards contained. Without 
hesitation, she raises the ax and lets it fly. My knees, already on the verge of 
giving way, fold like wet cardboard and I collapse to the dirt as the ax 
whistles over my head into the canyon. 

That’s when I remember the force field. And what happens to dropped 
objects. I watch, breathless, for what the love of my life would call poetic 
justice. 

Silka stands there, her hand against her gushing eye socket. Her good 
eye squints at my gut, estimating the arrival time of my death. Then there’s 
the return of the whistle, her moment of confusion as the spinning ax 
catches the sunlight, and the dull sickening sound as it lodges in her head. 

Now we’re both on the ground. I roll on my back, watching the 
hovercraft that floats above us. Silka’s refusing to die — a strangled gurgle 


seeps from her lips. I just have to wait her out. My hand fumbles in my 
pocket, searching for a handkerchief to help stem my bleeding. But instead, 
I unearth the relics of my last, or second-to-last, or I don’t know which 
plan. The tools I needed to blow a hole in the Cornucopia. Well, obviously, 
that’s out. Dying outside the arena will have to be sufficient. Although it 
seems an awful shame not to try for one more poster. Perhaps there’s still a 
chance to go out with a bang? Yes. It’s all become clear now. I know what 
to do. 

It’s okay, Pa. It’s okay, Ma. Lift up your head, Sid. No one but me will 
paint this poster. 

I can feel consciousness threatening to slip away as I free the 
sunflower from my neck and place the blasting cap in it. I bite off the fuse 
with my teeth, leaving a few inches, and toss the remainder aside. 

This time it works, Ampert. Loose cannon going off, Louella. Wyatt. 
Lou Lou. Wellie. I pinkie swear, Maysilee. Pay attention, Panem. 
Newcomers land on top. 

The president’s card, courtesy of the Capitol, tears easily. I crumble 
the pieces and pile them with the candy wrappers. Finally, I pull the flint 
striker over my head and give it one long kiss. 

Oh, Lenore Dove. Oh, love of my life. I am with you before, now, and 
always. And I will find you. I will find you. 

“Haymitch. Haymitch Abernathy. You are to stop all activity 
immediately.” 

The quartz settles in one shaky hand, the other closes over the heads 
of the snake, the songbird. Such fine workmanship. Pretty with a purpose, 
she said. It has found its true purpose now. 

A cannon fires. No victor’s crown for you, Silka. Just the claw. Listen, 
those trumpets must be for me. 

A spray of sparks flies to the pile and blossoms into a little flame. A 
spray of bullets dance around my hands. Ha. Missed me. 

“Freeze! Haymitch Abernathy, you have been — Drop that! Drop that 
now!” 

The flame’s already dying as I hold out the bomb. It kisses the tip of 
the short fuse, then hungrily begins to eat up the black cord. 

“You don’t know what you’re doing! Stop! Don’t throw it!” 


But I do. With my last ounce of strength, I launch the sunflower into 
the canyon. If nothing else, there should be an impressive boom. But the 
Gamemaker’s panicked voice has allowed me to hope for more. What will 
happen when the explosion meets the force field? I have absolutely no idea. 
Only that they seem to fear it. The quartz slips to the ground, blending into 
the other rocks. I slide the flint striker under my collar, where it can rest on 
my heart. She’ ll understand. 

The wind scatters the last bits of ash, carrying them into oblivion. 
Black specks flood my eyes, forming a cloud that blocks the sunlight. A 
blast rocks the world. 

My last sensations are of the slippery coils of my intestines in one 
hand, the songbird pressing against my skin, and the earth quaking beneath 
me. 

I die happy. 


b> 


Drip. Drip. Drip. 

“Ma must have hung the laundry inside.” 

Drip. Drip. Drip. 

“So cold. Need to put some coal on the fire. So cold. Where’s my 
quilt? Sid, you got my quilt?” 

Drip. Drip. Drip. 

“Hattie bottling a new batch. Always stinks like this. First part of the 
run gets tossed. ‘Throw out the heads, Haymitch. Stuff will kill you. It’ kill 
you.’” 

Drip. Drip. Drip. 

“Too late, Hattie. I’m already dead. Hey, Hattie?” 

Drip. Drip. Drip. 

“Hattie? Ma?” There’s no response. Something bad is happening. 
“Ma?” 

I snap awake. Why is Hattie brewing in my kitchen? Get us all 
arrested. Why will no one answer me? This isn’t the kitchen. What the hell 
is happening? Why do I hurt so bad? 

A greenish tornado sky glow. The sharp alcohol smell married with 
chemicals lining my nose, coating my tongue. Drip-drip-dripping mixed 


with a distant murmur, words I cannot quite make out. Cold metal pinning 
me to cold metal. Fear. 

I blink hard and the world comes into focus. Through the swampy 
light, a high ceiling crisscrossed with pipes. I lick my sandpaper lips, try to 
swallow. Reach to rub my eyes, but my hands can’t make it past my belly. 
Fingers find the long row of stitches across my gut. Can’t make sense of 
them. A steel table beneath me. No mattress or sheet or pillow. Metal cuffs 
with short chains on my wrists and ankles. Strap across my chest. Naked as 
a jaybird. Not a stitch. No, but something left. My flint striker. . . 

The memory swoops back into my brain. The cliffside. The bomb. 
Silka’s dying gurgles. The warnings from above. Sparks flying. Fuse 
catching. The arc of the sunflower against the open sky. Then, that 
earsplitting sound. 

I must be dead. I felt my intestines sliding out. My body shutting 
down. I wanted to go. The job was done, my poster completed. 

What’s happened to me? 

My flint striker rests on my heart, as it did in my final moment, only 
now it’s fastened to my neck by the leather bootlace. Someone has tied it 
there, and it wasn’t Ma. 

Where am I, Lenore Dove? Where are you, my only love? 

Tubes sprout from my arms. One in my belly. I twist my head to the 
right and pain scalds my gut. A few feet away, faces press against a glass 
wall. Tongueless mouths open. Avoxes, unclothed and dirty, paw the glass, 
begging me for something I can’t give. Terrified, I turn to the left. 

A moment of relief as I spot my old friend, the gray rabbit from the 
arena. My dove in the coal mine, who warned of danger, who led me from 
the maze. Has it come to save me once again? Help me. Can you help me? 
The green eyes stare unblinking from the tank. It presses into the glass. 
Why does it tremble so? 

From the shadows, something strikes. A six-foot snake swallows up 
my ally. A lump in the sinewy body. 

I slam my eyes shut. This must be a nightmare. Or perhaps I’ve gone 
to another world, a bad one. I try to will myself back into unconsciousness, 
to escape this evil place. But in my heart of hearts, I know it’s real. I start 
shaking as hard as the rabbit. Harder. Awaiting my snake. Please send the 
snake and end this. 


Muffled footsteps. A tug on my tubes. A woman in a mask swaps a 
full bag of clear fluid for an empty one. 

“Where am I?” I rasp. She ignores me. Just sponges my gut stitches 
with a foul-smelling liquid, sending shocks of pain across my trunk. “Stop! 
You’re hurting me!” I struggle. She doesn’t stop. I stop, because moving 
makes the pain worse. 

She leaves. Murmurs again. This time I catch a few words. 
“Laboratory.” “Sepsis.” “Disruptive.” A coldness surges from the needle 
planted in my arm. Nothingness. 

When I wake again, I have new knowledge. In this place, disruption 
brings oblivion. Dispensed from afar like the drugs in Lou Lou’s pump. I 
try to be as disruptive as possible for the hours? days? weeks? I am 
imprisoned here. When I’m conscious, the Avoxes plead. Padded feet bring 
pain. Grotesque mutts replace the humans. More bunnies die. Nasty 
concoctions are forced between my lips. No daylight breaches the walls, no 
ally comforts me. I am utterly alone and defenseless. 

Fresh confusion as I surface in a nest of burnt orange. Somehow, I’m 
back at the tribute apartment. Across the room, Wyatt’s bed, bereft of 
covers, catches me off guard. Still haven’t had the space to mourn him. 

Gingerly, I wiggle my fingers and toes. All the tubes and restraints 
have vanished, but a pump identical to Lou Lou’s has sunk its teeth deep 
into my chest, defying me to remove it. I fold back the fuzzy spread, the 
fine sheets, and examine my gut wound. No stitches, just a puckered, angry 
scar, like a twisted smile. My thigh has fared better, but I’ll carry the mark 
for life. Still naked. I jump up, only to collapse back down on the bed, 
gripping the covers as the room spins. I wait for things to settle before a 
second attempt. With my feet carefully planted on the floor, I slowly rise. 
My pajamas are still in a jumble on the floor where I left them the morning 
of the Hunger Games. With no other options, I put them on. 

I wobble into the living room and steady myself against the doorjamb 
of the girls’ room. Bedding from our last sleepover drapes the furniture and 
floor. Dried blood spots from Lou Lou’s ear dot her pillow. Maysilee’s 
pajamas sit folded in a neat pile on her bed. Nobody’s here because 
everybody’s dead. 

“Mags?” I croak. “Wiress?” No answer. The whole build-ing’s as 
silent as a grave. The street outside the apartment, deserted. Locked down. 


Block barricaded off. I am indeed a dangerous young man. The charming 
rascal turned deadly rebel. Woodbine Chance has grown up into one of his 
loose cannon kin, fated to swing by his neck while District 12 looks on. 
Seized by an impulse to flee, I make for the elevator and press the button 
repeatedly. No humming, no lights, no escape possible. 

In the kitchen, the table’s bare, but the refrigerator holds a platter of 
rolls and a shelf of pint-sized cartons of milk. Snow’s diet after the deadly 
oysters. Though my stomach has shrunk to the size of a walnut, it still 
craves food. I dip bits of bread in the milk and suck them down. Being 
poisoned no longer worries me. If the president wanted me dead, why has 
he gone to so much trouble to keep me alive? He has big plans for me. The 
camera in the corner reminds me my every move’s being watched or at least 
recorded. No, at this point, definitely watched. Eyes on me, 24/7. I will not 
be allowed to die. I will be resurrected by the Capitol for their 
entertainment. Perhaps, I am even being broadcast live now. Perhaps, as a 
victor, I will never be off camera again... . 

Exhausted by my excursion, I return to bed and sink into a fitful sleep. 

Days pass. My schedule’s my own here. Nothing but time to consider 
the consequences of my actions in the arena. Snow’s perfect little 
showpiece that I undermined every chance I got. I take no pleasure in that 
now as I wonder who’s paying the price for it. Beetee. Mags. Wiress. 
They’re likely all being tortured to reveal the names of accomplices. The 
rebel sympathizers who crafted sunflower bombs and fuse necklaces. The 
Gamemakers and Peacekeepers who helped smuggle them in. I hope 
they’ve spared the prep team and Effie, who are completely clueless Capitol 
pawns. I doubt anyone suspects Drusilla and Magno Stift of being 
sympathizers and I don’t care if they do. And Plutarch? I’m still not sure of 
his role in all this, but he was right about the sun and the berms, and 
without that knowledge, it would have been impossible to carry out my 
mission. Is he an ally? A Capitol operative? Both? Impossible to know. 

I don’t dare think about my loved ones back home. Everything I did, 
every choice I made, was based on the knowledge that my death protected 
them from harm. Snow had guaranteed that in the library. “With you out of 
the picture, Lenore Dove and your family should be free to enjoy long and 
happy lives.” Like Beeteesaid, if he had died, Ampert would have still been 
alive. Snow wanted him to suffer the horror of watching his son’s 


execution; it was pointless otherwise. But since Snow needed a victor for 
his perfect Quarter Quell, I guess he changed his mind about killing me. 

To make matters worse, Beetee’s transgressions were clandestine and 
mine were televised to the entire country. Or were they? I have no idea how 
my efforts have been edited, blacked out, and card-stacked. It’s possible that 
nothing significant has been aired, gutting the effectiveness of my posters, 
but perhaps lightening my punishment. 

This I know: I have been publicly challenging Snow and his Quarter 
Quell since I landed in the Capitol. Even after the private meeting in the 
library, I flaunted my defiance of him. If he served up poisoned oysters to 
Incitatus Loomy, the parade master, what feast must he have in store for me 
and mine? 

Maybe a week has gone by, according to the shifting light on the 
street. Solitary confinement continues. The isolation is almost scarier than 
the creepy lab. You know when you’re starting to miss hanging out with the 
mutts, you’re in trouble, but I long for company. 

The rolls harden, the milk begins to turn, but I keep eating, driven by 
a convalescent’s ravenous appetite. I fantasize about food. Fresh plums. 
Mashed potatoes. Rabbit stew. Stack cake. Will I ever taste stack cake 
again? Unlikely. If I do make it home, I expect childhood celebrations will 
be a thing of the past. I won’t really be home anyway. I’1l have a house in 
the Victor’s Village, with all the niceties Beetee alluded to. Reliable 
electricity, warm and cool air, flushing toilets, and all the hot water I want at 
the turn of a faucet. No pumping and chopping required. Like my prison 
here. 

Perhaps my victory celebration has been canceled due to my 
insurrection. Maybe I’m just being imprisoned for my public execution. 
One can hope. 

I start spending long stretches in the tub. The towel I threw over the 
camera’s been removed and I don’t bother replacing it. They’d just drug me 
and take it away. Might chain me up again. No point. I soak for hours and 
hours, replenishing the hot water, watching my fingers and toes get pruney 
as bits of dead flesh float off my scar. Images of the arena consume me. 
Death upon death. Ones I didn’t witness, like the bloodbath, I imagine. I try 
to recall the other forty-seven tributes plus Lou Lou. Using Maysilee’s color 


system helps a bit, but about half elude me. District 5, District 8. All but 
forgotten. 

Wyatt’s absence haunts me in the bedroom, so I take my spread to the 
couch and make camp there. The television, unresponsive to my attempts 
with the remote, begins to turn on and off on its own. I’m fed clips from old 
Hunger Games, curated especially for me. Gory snippets, terrorized 
children, despair. The early ones, which they rarely feature on Capitol TV, 
are low-budget affairs with no attempt at the showiness that marks today’s 
extravaganzas. Just a bunch of kids thrown into an old arena with some 
weapons. No costumes or interviews. 

One evening, a haunting melody weaves through my dreams. I startle 
from sleep, calling Lenore Dove’s name. The television glows. On-screen, a 
girl in a rainbow of ruffles sings a familiar tune with unfamiliar words. 


It’s sooner than later that I’m six feet under. 

It’s sooner than later that you’ll be alone. 

So who will you turn to tomorrow, I wonder? 

For when the bell rings, lover, you’re on your own. 


She performs on a stage with a shabby backdrop before a Capitol 
audience in old-fashioned clothes. Great-Aunt Messalina and Great-Uncle 
Silius would fit right in. 

Her voice, that accent, the way those fingers command the guitar 
strings — a Covey girl, for sure. But not mine... 


And I am the one who you let see you weeping. 
I know the soul that you struggle to save. 

Too bad I’m the bet that you lost in the reaping. 
Now what will you do when I go to my grave? 


Sniffles from the audience. Someone shouts, “Bravo!” The crowd 
goes wild. The girl bows and extends her hand to a figure who’s standing 
just out of the spotlight. A silhouette of a man. Upright, trim. A crown of 
curls. He waits a moment, as if deciding whether or not to join her. Then 
takes a step forward as the screen goes black. 


The reaping, she said? Must be. Why else would a Covey girl be in 
the Capitol? Could this girl be District 12’s one and only victor? Suddenly, 
I’m sure she is. No wonder Lenore Dove never wants to talk about her. She 
knows the story, but it’s too secret, or perhaps too painful, to share even 
with me. I think about the bits of color Lenore Dove adds to her wardrobe, 
the bright blue, yellow, and pink. Are they scraps from this girl’s dress? A 
way to keep her memory alive? What color name did this rainbow girl carry 
to the Tenth Hunger Games? What happened to her after? Did she come 
home? Did she die in the nightmarish lab? What did she do to be erased so 
completely? 

Who was the guy she reached out to at the end of her number? Her 
district partner possibly, who’d have died in the arena. It was someone she 
cared about, from the look of it. Or perhaps it was someone else, someone 
hosting the show. An earlier Flickerman. They’d be forty years older now if 
they’re still alive. 

Forty years. Not all that long after the Dark Days. If District 12’s 
forgotten her, it’s unlikely she’s remembered here in the Capitol. No, wait. 
Someone here remembers the Covey. Someone who knows how they name 
their babies and love their birds. Intimate, personal knowledge. The 
information I attributed to Capitol informers could have an entirely different 
source. I do the math. Fifty-eight minus forty. Eighteen. President Snow 
would’ve been eighteen during the Tenth Hunger Games. The Covey girl 
would have been no older. The curly-headed man in the shadows that she 
reached out to... was it him? 

I recall the library, his knowing smirk. . . 

“Bet I know a thing or two about your dove.” 

“Like what?” 

“Like she’s delightful to look at, swishes around in bright colors, and 
sings like a mockingjay. You love her. And oh, how she seems to love you. 
Except sometimes you wonder because her plans don't seem to include you 
at all.” 

Oh, Lenore Dove, what have I done to you? How will you pay for my 
surviving the Hunger Games? 

I lose it, smashing a chair into the window, shattering glass onto a 
table of china kittens, then pounding at the bars with a heavy lamp. I 
hammer away until a burst of bullets above my head breaks my focus. 


A pair of heavily armed Peacekeepers has materialized, their rifles 
trained on me. Behind them, my prep team huddles and would likely flee if 
Effie Trinket didn’t have a firm grip on their grooming belts. “Well,” she 
says with false cheeriness, “who’s ready for a big, big, big night?” 

The Peacekeepers slap on handcuffs and propel me into the center of 
the room, where my prep team stares at me, aghast. I’m skin and bones, 
wearing dirty pajamas, and my bare feet bleed freely from the broken glass. 
Somewhere in the last few weeks, my nails have turned to claws, my hair to 
fur. I’ve killed multiple times and preserved no life but my own. I left a 
simple district piglet and returned as the murderous beast that they always 
suspected lay in wait. 

“Just need a flower for my lapel,” I say. 

But you can’t keep Effie down. She holds up a white rose. “Got it. 
Why don’t we start with a shower? You’!l want to look your best for your 
Victor’s Ceremony.” 

No execution, then. At least, not yet. 

Soaped up, rinsed off, trimmed, shaved, teeth brushed, feet bandaged. 
Revulsion at my scar expressed and dealt with, the team dresses me in 
another Uncle Silius ensemble. 

I finger the champagne bubbles embroidered in the jacket. “Where’s 
Magno Stift>?” 

Effie’s nose wrinkles in disgust. “More toads. He’s still recovering, 
but he’s planning to make an appearance tonight since you’re the victor.” 

“I’m going to tell everyone you dressed me.” 

“Please, don’t.” She sighs. “He’ll only make a scene, and it’s hard 
enough being a Trinket.” She arranges my flint striker over my shirt. I try to 
shove it back under my collar, but she resists. “He said to keep it out, where 
everybody can see it.” 

“Magno did?” I ask Effie. 

“No.” She clips off the end of the rose, slides it into a buttonhole and 
gives it a tap. “He did.” She steps back. “You look very presentable. 
Remember, positive attitude.” 

Despite my finery, I’m shackled and transported in the van, which 
feels so dark and desolate without Maysilee, Wyatt, and Lou Lou. No 
greenroom for me this time. Still rattling my chains, I’m escorted beneath 
the stage and shoved into a chair, with four guards assigned to me. 


Effie, to her credit, stands by me. When the Peacekeepers object, she 
says, “He’s the second Quarter Quell victor. Drusilla and Magno are not 
available. Someone should be with him to honor his achievement.” 

“Your funeral,” a Peacekeeper says. 

I think about the things I did in the arena. Things they definitely 
would have shown. Killing the pair from District 4. The brutal ax fight with 
Silka. Maybe they’re right to chain me like a beast. I feel grateful to Effie. 
“T won’t hurt you,” I mutter. 

“T know that,” she says. “I’ve known who you are ever since you 
helped with my makeup box. And I know your position could not have been 
easy.” 

It’s surprisingly touching. “Thanks, Effie.” 

“But they really are for a greater good. The Hunger Games.” 

And now she’s lost me. 

The area beneath the stage begins to fill with people and their 
handlers. The activity centers around five metal plates that will ascend with 
the featured players of the night. Proserpina and Vitus jitter on one circle in 
anticipation, tweaking each other’s makeup. Drusilla, who appears to be 
wearing a stuffed eagle on her head, teeters on six-inch heels. Magno reels 
in, decked in live-reptile fashion, and a few assistants balance him on his 
spot, with crossed fingers. I crane my neck, trying to find my mentors. 
Finally, Mags arrives in a wheelchair while a still-mobile but distressed 
Wiress twitches her head about in a birdlike fashion, a steady stream of 
words spouting from her lips. Very bad things have been done to them. 
Mags spots me and tries to rise before she’s shoved back in her chair. No 
reunion for us. 

Their torturous treatment makes it impossible to deny my family’s 
certain punishment. Are they already dead? Or will Snow arrange, as he did 
with Beetee, for a time when I can personally witness their suffering? 

The anthem plays and I hear Caesar Flickerman welcome the 
audience to the second Quarter Quell’s Victor’s Ceremony. He calls the 
Games historic, unparalleled, unforgettable, and as devastating a reminder 
of the Dark Days as the country has ever witnessed. He begins to introduce 
my team as a hubbub of shouting and whooping comes from the audience. 
Up go Proserpina and Vitus, clapping for themselves. Drusilla follows, in a 
dramatic pose that mimics the eagle’s outstretched wings. As his plate rises, 


Magno almost tumbles off, but catches himself and crawls back aboard. He 
makes his entrance on one knee, his hands in a victory clasp above his head. 
The Peacekeepers haul Mags to her feet. She and Wiress, arms encircling 
each other’s waists, lean against each other for support. 

Freed of my shackles, I’m held in place on my plate until it begins to 
rise. What did the audience see during the Hunger Games? Will they boo or 
applaud for me? And who am I supposed to be? Is it possible I’m still a 
beloved rascal? Or are they salivating to see the murderous monster from 
District 12? Effie Trinket, the only one I might ask, has melted into the 
shadows. 

I brace myself, preparing to be pelted with rotten fruit or jeered off the 
stage. Bright lights partially blind me, and I lift my hand to shield my eyes. 
When they adjust, I realize the entire audience has given me a standing 
ovation. Mad cheers and hot tears. 

I’m the hero of the moment. The star of Panem. The victor of the 
Quarter Quell. And that can only mean that President Snow has won the 
day. 

People in the crowd begin to chant a mishmash of sounds that reduce 
to “Show it! Show it! Show it! Show it!” 

I turn to Caesar for direction and he draws a line across his abdomen. 
My scar. They want me to show them my scar. There appears to be no 
choice. I pull my silk shirt up, unzip my pants as far as modesty allows, and 
display my scar. The applause lasts for a full five minutes. 

Giant screens throughout the auditorium come to life with the anthem 
playing over a fluttering flag of Panem. Caesar guides me to an upholstered 
chair positioned in the center of the stage for the recap. It is my first 
glimpse into how my Hunger Games were broadcast to the public. 

The recap opens on the reading of the card, which I watched from 
home with Ma and Sid in the spring. A little girl dressed all in white, the 
picture of innocence, lifts the lid on a wooden box filled with envelopes. 
They widen the shot to include President Snow, who intones, “And now, to 
honor our second Quarter Quell, we respect the wishes of those who risked 
all to bring peace to our great nation.” He leans over and carefully selects 
the envelope marked with a 50 and reads the card inside. “On the fiftieth 
anniversary, as a reminder that two rebels died for each Capitol citizen, 
every district will be required to send twice as many tributes to the Hunger 


Games. Two female and two male. In this doubling of reparations, we 
remember that true strength lies not in numbers, but in righteousness.” 

Bam! They start drawing the names at the reapings, beginning with 
District 1. “Silka Sharp!” “Panache Barker!” They machine-gun through the 
tributes with a quick shot of each and a counter in the corner of the screen 
that tracks from one to forty-eight. Being the home of the victor, District 12 
is allowed a bit more time. Drusilla, yellow hat feathers bobbing, gets in her 
“Ladies first!” before “Louella McCoy!” My sweetheart marches up. 
“Maysilee Donner!” There’s Maysilee, Merrilee, and Asterid clutching one 
another in the crowd. One of the tearful good-byes captured by Plutarch. 
“And the first gentleman who gets to accompany the ladies is .. . Wyatt 
Callow!” They briefly cover Wyatt, and then Drusilla calls my name. 
Lenore Dove’s refusal to perform has not made this version. Not tearful 
enough for Plutarch and too Covey for Snow. But there’s no Ma or Sid 
either. The omission chills me. Why isn’t Plutarch’s footage here? “Ladies 
and gentlemen, join me in welcoming the District Twelve tributes of the 
Fiftieth Hunger Games!” says Drusilla, as if daring District 12 to do 
anything else. “And may the odds be EVER in your favor!” I’m obliterated 
by a swirl of confetti. 

I want to scream out the truth. A boy’s head was blown off! People in 
12 were shot! My reaping was rigged! But I just sit there, mute and 
radiating implicit submission. Snow has me by the short hairs and he knows 
it. 

Incitatus Loomy could not have masterminded a finer parade. The 
frantic backstage prep never makes an appearance, just a majestic, orderly 
rollout of the tributes. There’s a final aerial shot of all twelve chariots 
cruising along the route in perfect sync, which ends about fifteen seconds 
before that blue firecracker exploded, sending the whole event into chaos. 
This is all the country saw anyway. You had to be there in person to know 
about the crashing chariots and me holding Snow accountable for Louella’s 
death. Which, as we know, also didn’t happen because, look, it’s time for 
the interviews and all forty-eight tributes are in the house. 

The Careers have been edited to appear smarter, the Newcomers less 
unified. Does anyone even notice this besides me? Lou Lou’s reduced to a 
girl wearing live-reptile fashion, Maysilee’s and Wyatt’s memorable turns 
are entirely ignored, and I get one snarky exchange with Caesar: 


“So, Haymitch, what do you think of the Games having one hundred 
percent more competitors than usual?” 

“T don‘ see that it makes much difference. They’Il still be one hundred 
percent as stupid as usual, so I figure my odds will be roughly the same.” 

The audience laughs, and I give them this grin that confirms me as a 
stuck-up, selfish jerk. No mention of my support of the Newcomers. No 
silly interplay about making booze for Peacekeepers. The rascal’s just a 
jackass. 

Now we’re rising into the arena. The opening sequence is a love letter 
to the Gamemakers as we savor the beauty of flora and fauna. For me, 
though, it calls to mind the deceptively sweet, brain-clouding smell of the 
air. 

The jackass, meaning me, grabs his gear and hightails it out of there 
and then we get to watch the bloodbath, where eighteen kids are killed in 
excruciating detail. The audience before me gasps and cries out in glee, 
though they’ve seen it all before. Wyatt dies a selfless hero protecting a 
bewildered Lou Lou, who manages to scamper off unscathed. Maysilee 
fights, then follows Lou Lou to protect her. So many Newcomers fall. Two 
doves, the boys from 7, all of 8 and 9, Lannie and the other girl from 10, 
Tile from 11. With Wyatt, that makes sixteen. The only Career casualties 
are a boy and girl from District 5. Eighteen in all. 

Oh, hello again, jackass! Sure, take your time. Catch your breath on 
the rock. Check out your pack. Don’t worry about the Newcomers, they’ve 
got this. Ooh, look at that pretty woods. Have a nice hike! 

A bunch of us sicken as the poisonous fruit and water kicks in. Carat 
from 1 and Urchin, the boy from 4 who knocked me off the chariot, writhe 
to death. That accounts for the twenty kids I saw in the sky that first night. 
The rest of the Careers have formed their pack on the snow-capped 
mountain. 

Up until this point, I think the recap’s been a fair record of what 
occurred in the arena. However, on Day 2, things start to go wonky. At 
some point, Maysilee, on her own, kills the boy from District 1, Loupe, 
which I believe to be true because she told me this. There are a lot of 
tributes still recovering from the poison and the Career pack’s hunting 
Newcomers. That, too, seems likely. But the recount of what happened in 
the woods, my tale, begins to deviate almost immediately. Timelines are 


twisted. Connections misleading. It’s less flat-out lying than lying by 
omission. For instance, I see myself fighting squirrels, although they 
weren’t around until the third day when I fought them to save Ampert. But 
we haven’t even met up yet, so I seem to be trying to save my own life. 
They show Lou Lou gasping in the flowers, only I’m nowhere in sight. 
Later, I’m just running from the butterflies without even a glimpse of my 
fleeing with her body, hiding in the willows, and bringing on the shockers 
as punishment. What they showed during the actual Games, I don’t know, 
but in the recap, I’m not even attempting to protect any of my allies. Day 3, 
the squirrels, as if making a second appearance, swarm Ampert, and then 
there’s a reveal of his skeleton on the ground. Again, I’m nowhere to be 
found. In fact, our picnic, the campout, the bombing of the tank, my 
rampage, and the arena going haywire — not a bit of that appears. 

The horrors of the volcano take center stage. The tributes experience 
the flame-shooting eruption, asphyxiation by the ash cloud, burns from the 
chemical lava. Twelve die. The rest barely escape and head across the 
meadow to the woods. 

Cut to me, waking up blanketed by the sparkling ash. I get back to the 
business of trudging north. With the tank plot erased, my whole agenda 
seems to have been about getting to the end of the arena, which was, I 
guess, my cover story. It rains, but they’ve concealed all the bombing’s 
damage. The arena’s as perfect as ever. I get trapped in the hedge, follow 
the gray rabbit to freedom, and run into Panache and company. 

I don’t know who that is on the screen, so brutally killing those 
Careers from District 4. I guess it’s me, but I can’t own it. I stop thinking of 
myself as the jackass because it seems too complimentary for the creature 
I’ve devolved into. Doesn’t help when they show every syllable of my 
toadying, babbling speech to Panache, who is finally silenced by Maysilee’s 
dart. 

“We’d live longer with two of us.” Oh, Maysilee. I am mortified to be 
sitting here. 

For a bit, things get back on course again. Maysilee and I look out for 
each other, and Silka and Maritte take out Ringina and Autumn in combat. 
But in a mind-bending realignment of events, Maysilee and me drawing off 
the porcupine mutt and Maritte and Maysilee killing the three Gamemakers 
at the berm have vanished. Somewhere in time, Maritte and Silka chase us 


through the woods, and Buck, Chicory, and Hull die from the quills, but it 
appears the porcupine just wanders off on its own. 

Is it Day 4 or 5? Maysilee and my attempts to carve our way through 
the hedge have merged into one big sequence that involves the ladybugs 
and blowtorch. We’re on the cliff that looks down on the treacherous rocks, 
but they steer clear of the generator. They’ve edited out the cannon 
announcing Maritte’s death and with it the part where Maysilee says she’s 
just going back for the potatoes, so it looks like we’ve really decided to split 
up. To my surprise, they keep my discovery of the force field. I guess they 
need it for Silka’s death? 

The pink birds attack Maysilee and she screams. For the first time, I 
look like I might be redeemable because I run to her aid. Oh, no. They 
haven’t turned this into a redemption story, have they? Selfish rascal learns 
to care about others? Please tell me no. 

Day 5 or 6? Who knows? It’s just one big, big, big day. 

My delivery of milk from Snow has evaporated. As I run through the 
woods, they’ve added the sound of Wellie screaming, which didn’t happen. 
I appear to have finally remembered that I belong to a wider alliance so ’m 
going to the rescue, when the cannon sounds and I come upon Silka, 
Wellie’s head in hand. 

Smash cut to the golden squirrels stripping Maritte to the bone. No 
matter that she’s been long dead by this time. But people must know that. 
Maysilee and Maritte appeared in the sky together. Does no one remember? 
Do they just not care? Or during the Games, did they show the audience a 
different sky? Or none at all? And did they intentionally save Maritte’s 
death to increase tension at the end? The Gamemakers must have been 
scrambling like crazy to control the narrative by this point. Whatever the 
case, the audience here in the auditorium has embraced this version, 
cheering and jeering on cue. Their lack of discernment transforms the recap, 
validating it as truth. I hope those in the districts can still see it as the piece 
of propaganda it is, but no telling what they’ve been fed. 

We’re back to Silka and me facing off, knowing we’re the final two. 
Without words, we quickly engage in battle. Fatal wounds are exchanged. I 
run to the hedge. 

On the cliff, Silka corners me, throws her ax. I drop. They cut to her 
anticipation and then back to me, convulsing. This must have happened 


after I lost consciousness. 

The ax rebounds and buries itself in her head. And then? — and then? 

Silka dies, her cannon fires, and I’m hanging on by a thread. The 
sunflower bomb, the quartz, the flint striker — there’s no record of any of 
them. All of them gone or tucked away from sight. The hovercraft removes 
Silka’s body. Trumpets declare my victory. A claw closes around me. 

Are there rules about breaking out of the arena and using the force 
field to win? Possibly they are implied, but I have never heard them 
mentioned. So, what am I? A rascal? A cheater even? Maybe. But clearly I 
do not rise to the standard of a rebel. 

The camera pulls back slowly as they carry me away, for the first time 
revealing the arena as a whole. It looks like a giant eye. The Cornucopia 
marks the pupil. The wide circle of spring-green meadow makes up the iris. 
On either side, the darker green of the forest and mountain terrain narrows 
to points, forming the whites of the eye. Well, the symbolism has been lost 
on no one. Even the little kids in the Seam know the Capitol powers are 
watching us. 

I wonder if they ever consider that we’re watching them, too. 

All eyes on me now, as I rise to my feet before the thundering crowd. 
The anthem plays as President Snow descends from the heights on a crystal 
platform, a bloodred rose in his lapel. In his hand, he holds a golden crown. 

Some victors bow, some kneel, but I just stand there trying to read his 
expression as he approaches and places the crown on my head. Heavy. 
Entrapping. “I guess Snow lands on top,” I say under the applause. Utterly 
guilty on all possible counts, I await his sentence. 

He merely smiles and says, “Enjoy your homecoming.” 


“J 


The after-party’s held in the ballroom of the presidential mansion. I’m 
displayed in a giant golden birdcage that dangles from the main chandelier 
at about eye level. It’s supposed to be a joke, I guess; the guests sure seem 
to get a kick out of it. But it isn’t. When I try the little handle at the door, 
it’s locked tight. 

My Peacekeeper buddies stand nearby, giving courage to the 
partygoers. I roll with it, bantering with my sponsors and posing for 
pictures, painting the best poster I can to convince President Snow that I’m 
on his team now. His puppet. His plaything. Because my blood’s been ice 
water since his comment about my homecoming. What awaits me? And if I 
behave, can I alter it? 

People bring me tidbits, feeding me by hand like you would a pet dog, 
and I smack my lips with appreciation, eating until my shrunken belly’s like 
to split open. I’m hoping they’re not showing this in District 12. People 
may forgive but they won’t forget such behavior, especially since I won’t 
get credit for all the trouble I’ve caused, which has landed me in this cage. 
The shame of this is not the sort of thing a person can live down. 

It’s all being recorded for posterity, though. Plutarch Heavensbee and 
his crew, still assigned to me, buzz around, taking footage. He refuses to let 


me catch his eye. I’m back to doubting if I can trust him — after all, he 
appears unscathed by the fallout of the rebel plot — but I’ve got no 
shortage of questions I’d like to ask him. 

I don’t see President Snow all night. Or much of my team either. 
Proserpina and Vitus swing by to congratulate me, tipsy and pink-faced. 
Drusilla and Magno, who success seems to have reconciled, kiss and coo 
and briefly pose for photos with me. Magno can’t even remember my name 
and insists on calling me Hamwich, which makes me sound like a ham 
sandwich. The only person who keeps an eye on me is Effie Trinket. She 
mingles nearby, watchful, but careful not to take any credit for my success. 

It’s not until the wee hours, as things are winding down, that Plutarch 
sidles up to my cage, seemingly focused on an uncooperative camera. 

“What’s happening with my family? Lenore Dove?” I say under my 
breath. 

“No word on your family. She’s still on the base,” he whispers. 

“What? She said they were letting her go in the morning. Did they 
arrest her again?” 

“No. They never released her.” 

“What?” 

He’s moved on, leaving me to dissect those horrible words. Never 
released. That was a lie, theirs or possibly hers. A gift she gave me so I 
wouldn’t worry about her, only myself. And it worked. But now I know that 
she has been absolutely helpless, completely at their mercy, this whole time 
while I sabotaged their arena. Confined. Starved. Tortured. Raped. 
Murdered. I grip the golden bars, petrified, as the words I’ve been refusing 
to consider pound in my brain. 

The woman with the cat ears appears, dangling a shrimp before me. 
My mouth opens automatically and I chew the delicacy while her friend 
takes our picture. I cannot quit now. Lenore Dove’s life is at stake. 

When dawn finally breaks, I’m allowed to relieve myself in a pink 
marble bathroom with curlicues and rose-scented soap. I’m hoping to be 
sent to the train station, but instead I’m returned to the apartment. Fresh 
rolls and milk have been provided. Clean clothes. I’m not going home any 
time soon. 

For the next ten days, I’m carted around the Capitol — to parties and 
interviews and fashion shoots — to publicly revel in my victory. No greater 


suck-up exists in the history of the Games. No humiliation is beneath me. I 
will bear anything to keep my loved ones alive. 

Finally, after an all-night party at the Capitol zoo, the Peacekeepers 
transport me to the deserted train station, which is still hung with the 
propaganda banners. NO PEACE, NO PROSPERITY! NO HUNGER 
GAMES, NO PEACE! And President’s Snow’s parting shot, PANEM’S #1 
PEACEKEEPER. 

A doctor, who waits at the door of the train, deftly removes my pump, 
leaving oozy spots where the teeth secured it to my chest. I can’t pretend 
I’m sad to see it go, although within minutes the drugs wear off and my scar 
Starts to hurt. 

No bunk bed with the stiff quilt for me. Back in chains, I’m locked in 
the room Plutarch once freed me from. He’s nowhere to be seen now. I 
guess the show’s over for real. I wrap Great-Uncle Silius’s champagne 
bubble jacket tightly around my body and sit in the corner, feeling the pain 
blossom across my gut. 

The Capitol’s got every reason to get rid of me, but the train refuses to 
budge. I have to get home. I have to know what has happened. 

After a couple of hours, a Peacekeeper comes in with a roll and a 
carton of milk. Still on the Snow diet. 

“Why aren’t we moving?” I ask. 

“Been waiting for your friends,” he replies, with a nod to the window, 
then goes. 

My friends? I have no friends here. Does he mean my team? I look 
out the window of my cell. Three carts are being rolled down the platform. 
Each carries a plain wooden box. After a momentary confusion, I put it 
together. They are coffins. Louella, Maysilee, and Wyatt will be riding 
home with me. I thought them long buried, peacefully resting in their 
family plots on the hill in District 12. Instead, we will finish this journey 
together. 

I slide back down the wall, shaking uncontrollably. I think of the state 
their bodies must be in, violated by chariots and blades and birds. I imagine 
their families, weeping and waiting at the station, turning their backs on me 
or, worse, turning their faces to me for explanations. Does the Capitol 
always send the fallen back with the victor? Or is this a parting gift for me 
in particular? 


I can hear the muffled thuds as they load the coffins onto the train. 
Quite close to me. The next car, I think. Doors slam shut. The train begins 
to roll. I curl up on the floor, my face against the wall, wishing I’d earned a 
coffin as well. But no, I have a homecoming to enjoy. 

My thoughts turn to Lenore Dove. My Covey girl. What happened to 
Snow’s? The mysterious District 12 victor. She could be alive. He is. And 
yet she’s all but vanished from memory in District 12. Did President Snow 
have her killed? No, he would only have been a boy. Hardly older than me. 
He wouldn’t have been in power. Not like now. What plans does he have for 
my dove? I think of the Covey song, the one Maysilee’s mamaw used to 
quote when she was scared. . . . Nothing you can take from me was ever 
worth keeping. The arrogance of those bold words. You can take several 
things from me — my ma, my brother, my love — that are the only things 
worth keeping. 

Another song surfaces unbidden. Also forbidden. Lenore Dove plays 
it for Burdock sometimes. . . . 


Are you, are you 

Coming to the tree 

Where they strung up a man they say murdered three? 
Strange things did happen here 

No stranger would it be 

If we met up at midnight in the hanging tree. 


Are you, are you 

Coming to the tree 

Where the dead man called out for his love to flee? 
Strange things did happen here 

No stranger would it be 

If we met up at midnight in the hanging tree. 


Strange things indeed. A dead man calling out. His ghost. No, Lenore 
Dove said it was a bird. Birds. Jabberjays. The failed mutts let loose to die 
in District 12. But they defied the Capitol’s sentence of extinction by 
fathering a new species, mockingjays, before they vanished. Is that what 
makes the song dangerous? Immortalizing those wayward mutts in a song? 


Are you, are you 

Coming to the tree 

Where I told you to run, so we’d both be free? 
Strange things did happen here 

No stranger would it be 

If we met up at midnight in the hanging tree. 


Or is it the Capitol hanging someone who was likely a rebel? That’s 
who died in the hanging tree. I know this tree, it’s real, my pa pointed it out 
to me. We have metal gallows in District 12 now, courtesy of the Capitol, 
but back in the day, many a rebel died swinging from its branches. 


Are you, are you 

Coming to the tree? 

Wear a necklace of rope, side by side with me. 
Strange things did happen here 

No stranger would it be 

If we met up at midnight in the hanging tree. 


Maybe Lenore Dove and I will hang together. Could be easier to find 
her then, in that next world of hers. 

That’s as close to comfort as I can get. 

We travel through the day, far into the night. Once in a while, there’s a 
stop somewhere to fuel up. Every few hours, rolls and milk are delivered, 
although I haven’t touched a mouthful. My gut aches and the hard floor digs 
into my unpadded bones. When I manage to doze, dead tributes pay calls. 
They seem to want me to do something, but it’s unclear what that is. The 
strangest visit involves Louella and Lou Lou, dressed in identical outfits, 
sitting across the table from me while I peel and eat a bowl of hard-boiled 
eggs. “Which of us is which?” they ask me. But the Capitol has won. I can’t 
tell them apart. 

I jerk awake to find the train has pulled into the District 12 station. I 
am home. The Peacekeepers come in, remove my shackles, and lead me to 
the exit. The door opens. 

“Get out,” says one. 


Full of trepidation, I step out onto an empty platform, gritty with coal 
dust. No one waits for me. No one expects me. It’s still dark out and the 
station clock reads 5 a.m. The Peacekeepers carelessly shove the coffins out 
after me, damaging a few boards. The train pulls away, leaving me entirely 
alone except for my fellow tributes. I walk over to them, lay a hand on the 
nearest coffin. Screwed into the lid’s a metal nameplate, not unlike the ones 
at Plutarch’s house, the ones on the berms in the arena. I touch the 
inscription. Louella McCoy. 

The smell of death rises through the cracked wood. I turn and propel 
my stiff body down the platform. 

The station’s quiet as a tomb. Strange, even for the hour. Perhaps it’s 
early on a Sunday, the one day the mines shut down. With all the drugs, I 
have no idea what the date is. Didn’t think to ask. We must be into August. I 
push through the heavy glass door, gulping in the night air, warm and moist 
and laced with coal dust, and for the first time I allow myself to believe that 
I have really come home. 

My heart skips a few beats and, fool that I am, tendrils of hope force 
their way up through the dirt of my despair. Could it be that within the hour, 
I might feel Ma’s arms around me, ruffle Sid’s hair, strip off Great-Uncle 
Silius’s dead man’s clothes, and pull on a pair of flour sack shorts? Could 
Lenore Dove be freed? Are the sweet moments of my previous life, always 
taken for granted before the Games, once more in reach? Can there be 
happiness again for a miserable wretch like myself? 

As I walk through the lonely streets toward the Seam, I pinch myself 
to rule out this being a dream. Silly, since I’ve no shortage of pain. It’s just 
that I was never supposed to return here, arena plot or no. The idea that I 
might have triumphed in a double Hunger Games strains belief. But those 
are my feet, clad in pointed patent leather shoes, kicking up the cinders on 
the way to my house. My pace quickens. If it is a dream, I want to sustain it 
until I get to see my family one more time. 

I take the glow up ahead for the sunrise, until I realize it’s too local, 
too bright. A whiff of smoke drifts through the heavy, humid air. Fire. But 
not coal fire. I break into the closest thing I can manage to a run. Withered 
muscles, screaming scars, swollen feet reduce my efforts to a wild hobble. 
Maybe I am wrong. Any house can catch fire. What with rusted stoves and 
unwatched hobs. Maybe it’s not mine. 


I know it’s mine. 

Now I can hear the voices, shouting for water, a woman wailing. As I 
round the bend, it comes into view, fully ablaze against the still-dark sky. 

“Ma?” I cry. “Sid?” 

I bust through the bucket line, fed by three neighbors’ pumps in 
addition to our own, those slow spurts of water, those pathetic splashes 
against the inferno. People draw away, startled, frightened by my 
appearance. Unprepared for the wild-eyed scarecrow in Capitol evening 
wear. 

“Ma! Sid!” I grab the nearest person, one of the Chance girls, no more 
than eight. “Where are they? Where’s my family?” Terrified, she points at 
the burning house. 

Ma and Sid are being burned alive. 

My feet dance side to side for a few seconds, looking for a break in 
the wall of flame, before I charge straight into the inferno. “Ma!” 

As I reach the doorway, a beam crashes down and I reflexively jump 
back in a shower of sparks. Temporarily blinded, I make for the house 
again, when I’m yanked backward. My patent leather shoes with their slick 
soles betray me as I’m dragged into the yard and pinned to the ground. With 
one man on every limb and Burdock on my chest, all I can do is holler. “Let 
me up! Let me loose, you —” 

Burdock’s hand clamps over my mouth. “It’s too late, Haymitch. We 
tried. It’s too late.” 

I get some teeth into his palm and he jerks his hand back, but I’m only 
free enough to yell. “Ma! Sid! Maaaaa!” 

Blair, kneeling on my right arm, leans in. Tears cut channels through 
his soot-blackened face. “We’re so sorry, Haymitch. We tried. You know we 
did. We just couldn’t save them.” 

“No! Let me go!” I fight to free myself, but I’m so out-numbered, still 
so weak from the long days of recovery, that I’m overpowered. “Let me go 
with them. Please!” But they don’t, they hold on to me tight. I lie there, 
sobbing, begging, calling for Ma and Sid, until no more sounds come out. 

“Can you help him?” I hear Burdock ask. 

A cool hand rests on my forehead. The scent of chamomile flowers. 
Asterid March’s face swims into view, pained but sur-prisingly calm. 
“Drink this, Haymitch.” She presses a small bottle to my lips. “Drink until I 


say when.” Despite my desperation, or perhaps because of it, I follow her 
orders. Sweetness fills my mouth, soothes my gullet. “One, two, three, four, 
five — okay, when.” She pulls away the bottle. Smooths back my hair. 
“That’s right. That’s good. Try to rest now.” 

My eyelids become leaden. “What... ?” 

“Just some sleep syrup.” 

“Ma... Sid's...” 

“IT know. I know. We’I!] do what can be done. You go to sleep now. 
Sleep.” 

Dead to the world, I am, for over a day. I awake, thick-tongued and 
groggy, at the McCoys’, where Louella’s ma stands over me with a tin mug 
of tea. She does not mince words as she recounts the fire, perhaps because 
she’s so deep in grief herself she knows the last thing I want is 
sugarcoating. “It was our boy Cayson who spotted it, coming home from 
his ramblings. The house was already aflame. He shouted to raise the dead. 
We all started in with the water. But the pump’s slow and your cistern’s 
dry.” 

I’m the reason that cistern’s dry. Running off the moming of reaping 
day, leaving the chores to Sid. “My fault,” I mumble. 

“T expect you’ ll think everything’s your fault for a long while. But 
that’s got to wait. Today we bury them. You know what your ma would 
want.” 

Whether it’s shock or a sleep syrup hangover, I can’t seem to make 
sense of anything, so I do what I’m told. Louella’s big sister, Ima, has 
cleaned Great-Uncle Silius’s suit and polished his shoes. I’ve nothing else 
to wear, my own clothes being ash. It’s sweltering out, but I pull the 
champagne bubble jacket over the shirt to conceal the drug pump 
bloodstains, faded with washing, but still visible. 

“Lenore Dove,” I tell Ima. “I got to go to her.” 

“Cayson knows a Peacekeeper who said she’s got a hearing with the 
base commander today. You showing up won’t help her any, Hay. Besides, 
we’re about to head over to the graveyard.” 

Outside, a plain pine box awaits. “They had hold of each other,” Mr. 
McCoy says. “Thought we’d let them stay that way.” 

Ma and Sid clinging to each other for eternity. 


Burdock, Blair, and a couple of Ma’s customers carry the coffin. The 
McCoys bring Louella’s from behind the house and the two groups move 
forward, side by side. I limp along behind them. The mourners grow as we 
proceed. Everybody should be at work, but they’ claim they were sick. By 
the time we reach the graveyard, a couple hundred people have assembled. 
Seems like a lot compared to Mamaw’s burial, but then I realize we’re not 
grieving alone. 

Five fresh graves await. One for Ma and Sid. Louella. Maysilee. 
Wyatt. 

“Who’s the fifth for?” I hear Burdock ask. 

“Jethro Callow,” a woman answers, not bothering to lower her voice. 
“Hung himself yesterday when his boy returned. Couldn’t bear the shame.” 

A Booker Boy’s death. 

The mayor’s come to speak over our loved ones. The words make no 
more sense than the chirping of birds in the surrounding trees. Sweat soaks 
through my shirt into my jacket. I want to kneel down and press my face 
against the cool Abernathy headstone, but I try to stand with dignity, as Ma 
would want. 

There’s a bad moment when I look up and see my ally, wearing her 
District 12 black, and start for her. “Maysilee!” Her face crumples into 
tears, hides in a handkerchief. Not Maysilee. Merrilee. Like as two peas ina 
pod. Mr. Donner sobs beside her. I’m led back to my place. Obviously 
deranged. 

Coffins are lowered into the graves. Many shovels work to bury the 
departed. Dirt’s patted down. Some kind soul lays a wreath of wildflowers 
on each mound. People weep and wail. It’s so awful, I want to run away. 

Then Burdock begins to sing, in that clear, sweet voice of his: 


You’re headed for heaven, 

The sweet old hereafter, 

And I’ve got one foot in the door. 
But before I can fly up, 

I’ve loose ends to tie up, 

Right here in 

The old therebefore. 


The mockingjays, who nest in the surrounding trees, fall silent as he 
continues: 


I'll be along 

When I’ve finished my song, 
When I’ve shut down the band, 
When I’ve played out my hand, 
When I’ve paid all my debts, 
When I have no regrets, 

Right here in 

The old therebefore, 

When nothing 

Is left anymore. 


The mourners have quieted. 


When I’m pure like a dove, 
When I’ve learned how to love, 
Right here in 

The old therebefore, 

When nothing 

Is left anymore. 


The song, suggesting our separation is only temporary, consoles the 
heart. Lenore Dove would approve, I think. The mockingjays do, because 
they pick up the melody and make it their own. 

As my eyes sweep the crowd, I see person after person press the three 
middle fingers of their left hand to their lips and then extend it to their dead. 
Our way of saying good-bye to those we cherished. I follow suit, raising my 
hand high, because I have so many to honor. 

Then it’s over. I’m being led away. Even in my confusion, I notice 
that Cayson, his hands and face bandaged, spits on Jethro Callow’s grave. 
No one reprimands him. 

I want to break away, to try to see Lenore Dove on the base, but I’m 
argued down again. Do I really think my appearance will help her? The best 
thing is to wait for word. Let her uncles plead her case. With so many kids 


lost in the Quarter Quell, the districts are in a state of unrest. The base 
commander won’t be looking to throw gasoline on the fire in 12. Lenore 
Dove may be let go with a stern lecture and time served. 

The McCoys take the mourners back to their place, where bowls of 
bean and ham hock soup are ladled out. I can’t stay at the McCoys’, though. 
Their eyes are full of questions about Louella, and I know I owe them 
answers. I just can’t give them yet, not without losing my head again. As 
soon as I can, I excuse myself. 

I go home before I remember I have no home. Just a pile of blackened 
beams and a pump. I’m standing before the ashes when the clouds in my 
brain clear enough for me to ask, “What happened?” 

Fires are common enough in District 12, where the ever-present coal 
dust and aging wooden structures invite ignition. From the time I could 
toddle, Ma had put the fear of stray sparks and sleeping embers in me. No 
one took more care banking a fire at night. Which is how I know that this 
was no accident. This was arson, carried out in such a way that my family 
could not even make it to a window to escape. Ordered by Snow. For my 
homecoming. 

The shards of my heart shift and drive into my lungs, making 
breathing an agony. “My fault,” I say for the second time this morning. 

Burdock and Blair catch me as J start to fall and carry me around the 
bend before they set me on a stump to recover. They try to coax me to their 
homes, but the thought of their families, when I have none, is unbearable. 

“Well,” says Burdock grimly, “there’s your new house, then.” 

Only now do I remember the Victor’s Village. Desperate to be alone, I 
let them take me there, to this strange Capitol cage, which I instantly hate. 
In the bedroom, they lay me down in the artificially chilled air, and I stare at 
the wall. 

“I’m going to find Asterid,” I hear Burdock whisper. “See about more 
Syrup.” 

“T’ll watch him,” says Blair, leaving the door slightly ajar. “Dig up 
some clothes, too, can you?” 

Hand-me-downs are found. Sleep syrup administered, but not as 
much, because I wake with a start in the dead of night, mind racing, with 
one thought only: I must get to Lenore Dove. I must take her away from 
here. District 12 means death. Through the crack in the door, I make out 


Burdock and Blair, asleep on the couches in the living room. I climb out a 
window in the bedroom and flee into the night. 

The Covey’s house lies dark. The uncles gave Lenore Dove the loft 
for her own. I climb up the drainpipe, trying to figure if she’s made it home, 
but the whole place seems empty. Were they at the base all night? Have 
Tam Amber and Clerk Carmine been arrested as well? I doubt they’re out 
giving a show, things being what they are. I don’t want to be hanging 
around the house if they return. If Clerk Carmine didn’t approve of me 
before the Hunger Games, imagine how the rascal’s murderous run will 
have played for him. I head down to the Meadow, concealing myself behind 
some bushes. If Lenore Dove gets freed, I know one of the first things she’ll 
do is graze her geese. Unless she goes looking for me at the Victor’s 
Village — in which case, she'llcut across the Meadow on the way. 

Sitting on a fallen log, barefooted and in the worn miner’s clothes, I 
feel safer than I have in weeks. I like being hidden here in the dark, where 
no one can find me. Out of the view of the Capitol, but also away from the 
pitying eyes of District 12. I try to figure out a plan for me and Lenore 
Dove. We can’t stay here. But where is there to run? Only Snow’s “ghastly 
wilderness.” I love it, but I don’t live in it. I’m no Burdock, with his trusty 
bow and knowledge of plants. I’m not even a bona fide bootlegger yet. I’m 
nothing. And while Lenore Dove’s at home in the woods, she’s no more 
capable of surviving out there than I am. Maybe I’m just being selfish, 
wanting her to run with me when the truth is she’d be fine here without me. 
Snow would have no cause to target her if I was dead or gone. The right 
thing to do is take off on my own and leave her to lead her life. 

She won’t want to let me go and I sure don’t want to let her go. But 
what is the alternative? I’ll wait and see her one more time, go back to the 
Victor’s Village, and ask Burdock for a bow and some fishing line. If I die 
out there, so be it. Lenore Dove will be safe. 

The sky takes on the soft glow that precedes the sun’s arrival. The 
first birds begin to sing in the day. They’re joined by a chorus of honking, 
then angry voices. I lift my head to see the rare and radiant Lenore Dove 
herding her gaggle into the Meadow. 

“You’re not to go running off!” Clerk Carmine says from the edge of 
the Meadow. He’s agitated, shaking a finger at her. 


Tam Amber stands with him, a little more stooped than I remember. 
“He’s right, Lenore Dove. This is stretching house arrest to its limits 
already.” The base commander must have given a hard-line directive. Tam 
Amber’s the easy parent, the one she goes to with a questionable request, so 
if he’s worried... 

“T know! I heard you the first ten times!” she hollers back in 
exasperation. “I just want five minutes to myself. Is that possible around 
here? Or am I still in prison?” 

“Fine. Five minutes. Then I want you back in the house for breakfast, 
you hear me?” says Clerk Carmine. 

She gives him a Peacekeeper’s salute. “Yes, sir. Understood, sir. You 
can count on me, sir.” 

Clerk Carmine takes a step forward, but Tam Amber lays a hand on 
his arm, and he just resigns himself to a parting shot. “Don’t make us come 
down to fetch you, young lady.” The uncles head back to the house. 

Suddenly, I feel a burst of affection for Clerk Carmine. We both really 
want the same thing: for Lenore Dove to be safe and happy. And he was 
right. About his concerns over me, I mean. A boy from a rebel family who 
brews white liquor and disappears for hours with his niece in the woods 
does not spell security. Plus, I’m not even musical. I think I would have 
won him over eventually, if I’d had the chance. But now, it consoles me 
some that when I run away, he will be here guarding her. I guess I’ll never 
have a chance to tell him so, but it’s true. 

As I wait to be sure the coast is clear, I soak up the loveliness of 
Lenore Dove. She spins around, head back, arms lifted to the sky. It must 
have been hell for her being locked up. She can’t stand for anything to be 
confined. Especially wild things, which, of course, she is. The geese run 
around, chewing her out for being gone. She just sweet-talks them and 
strokes their necks. She’s about to roost on her favorite rock when she gives 
an exclamation of surprise and scoops something up. 

It’s my bag of gumdrops. The ones I had Sid deliver to her after the 
reaping. I guess she left them here before she went to perform that night. 
She presses the candy to her heart and twirls around, grinning, then breaks 
into the little white bag. I can’t wait another second. As I take off across the 
Meadow, she catches sight of me, cries out my name, and runs to meet me. I 


sweep her into my arms and spin her around and we’re both laughing and 
kissing like crazy. 

“Oh, Lenore Dove. Oh, my love,” I say. 

“You came back,” she says, tears streaming, but happy tears. “You 
came back to me. In this world!” 

“And you managed not to get hung!” I crow back. 

We hold each other so tight it’s like we’re one person. Which we are, 
for real. 

Her hands run over my face. “Are you okay? Are you really all right?’ 

“As right as rain,” I promise her. I don’t care, I can’t leave her. She’ Il 
want to run away with me, and I’Il let her. We'll figure out a way to live. 
Because I don’t think either of us can live without the other. 

We sink into the Meadow grass, hands clasped. She reaches for the 
bag of gumdrops that she dropped in our reunion. “Thanks for the candy. 
Gosh, look how hard I’m shaking!” 

“Here,” I say, taking the bag, not that I’m any steadier. I pluck a sweet 
from the bag and pop it in her mouth. 

She laughs. “Now you’re home, I guess I can eat the others.” 

“What others?” I feed her another gumdrop. 

“The ones Sid brought me. I put them under my pillow.” 

“But...” I look down at the bag. It’s a normal bag, with the Donners’ 
label. Then I notice the gumdrops. Not a variety of colors. Not a rainbow. 
They’re all a deep bloodred. I remember Snow’s rose, his final words to me, 
and the pieces fall into place. 

“Spit it out!” I order her, cupping my hand before her mouth. “Spit it 
out now!” 

Her face registers shock as she spits a half-chewed gumdrop into my 
palm. “What? It’s fine.” 

“Where’s the other? Where’s the first one?” I give her a shake. 

“T swallowed it, I guess. Why?” 

“Throw it up! Get it out of your stomach!” 

She’s panicking now. “What’s going on, Haymitch?” 

I think of the arena. “Do you all have any charcoal tablets at the 
house?” 

“Charcoal tablets? No, I don’t think so. Why would —” I see her put 
it together. She leans over, sticks a finger down her throat, and tries to gag 


the thing up. “I can’t do it. I’ve barely eaten in days. There’s nothing to 
throw up!” 

“Come on,” I pull her to her feet. “Come on.” I begin to call for help. 
“Clerk Carmine! Clerk Carmine!” 

“Haymitch, I —” A perplexed look crosses her face and she presses a 
hand to her chest. Her knees give way. “I can’t stand up.” 

I pull her back to her feet. “You’ve got to! Just get to the house.” I 
throw back my head and scream, “Clerk Carmine! Help! Help us!” She 
collapses into my arms. I kneel back on the ground, her body across mine. 
“Lenore Dove .. .” I plead. “Don’t. Don’t.” A blood-flecked foam bubbles 
up over her ie ‘Oh, NO-vg-sNOrsyo5” 

Her eyes fixate on something in the distance. “See that?” she says 
hoarsely. 

I turn my head and see the sun, just peeking over the horizon. “What? 
The sun?” 

“Don’t you... letit...rise...” she gets out. 

Tears choke me. “I can’t stop it. You know I can’t stop it.” 

Her head jerks a bit to the side. “. . . on the reaping,” she whispers. 

Oh, no. Don’t leave me with that. Don’t leave me at all. “Lenore 
Dove? Please try and hold on, darling. Lenore Dove?” 

“Promise.” Her eyelids flutter shut. 

“Okay, okay, I promise. But you can’t go. You can’t leave me. 
Because I love you like all-fire.” 

“You, too.” I think that’s what her lips said. 

“Lenore Dove?” I press mine against hers. Willing her to stay with 
me. Refusing to say good-bye. 

But when I pull back, I taste the poison and know she is gone. 


> 


The nightmare always starts with me feeding her that gumdrop. We’re 
in the Meadow, holding fast to each other, her face shining with tears of joy. 
And I don’t check the bag. I never check the bag. Why can’t I remember to 
check the bag? I just lift that bloodred gumdrop to her lips, and there’s no 
stopping what follows. My realization, her terror, the bloody foam, my 
pleading with her to stay, her making me promise. Then the uncles are 
there. Clerk Carmine ripping her from my arms, trying to restart her heart 
while he calls her name. Tam Amber standing stiffly over them, his head 
shaking as he mumbles, “Not again. Oh, not again.” 

That’s when the music kicks in, her name poem, her song, careening 
around my brain like a runaway train. 


Once upon a midnight dreary, while I pondered, weak and weary, 

Over many a quaint and curious volume of forgotten lore — 

While I nodded, nearly napping, suddenly there came a tapping, 

As of some one gently rapping, rapping at my chamber door — 

“°Tis some visitor,” I muttered, “tapping at my chamber door — 
Only this and nothing more.” 


Ah, distinctly I remember it was in the bleak December; 


And each separate dying ember wrought its ghost upon the floor. 

Eagerly I wished the morrow; — vainly I had sought to borrow 

From my books surcease of sorrow — sorrow for the lost Lenore — 

For the rare and radiant maiden whom the angels name Lenore — 
Nameless here for evermore. 


The raven. The unforgiving songbird. Repeatedly reminding me of 
President Snow’s crystal-clear message to me on my homecoming. That I 
will never get to love anyone ever again. Nevermore. Because he will make 
sure they end up dying a horrible death. 

And so, I drive away anyone and everyone who could ever have been 
considered dear to me. Old neighbors. Hattie. Customers. Schoolmates. 
Blair and Burdock hang on the hardest. Blair finally acknowledges the truth 
of my position, gives me one final hug and leaves sobbing. Even then, 
Burdock insists on showing up, sometimes along with Asterid, who bears 
bottles of sleep syrup. Defiant. Deaf to my pleas. I resort to throwing rocks, 
hard, at them. It takes one hitting Asterid on the forehead, blood pouring 
down her perfect face, to finally get them to leave me alone. Hurting her 
that way feels worse than anything I did in the arena. 


And the silken, sad, uncertain rustling of each purple curtain 

Thrilled me — filled me with fantastic terrors never felt before; 

So that now, to still the beating of my heart, I stood repeating 

“°Tis some visitor entreating entrance at my chamber door — 

Some late visitor entreating entrance at my chamber door; — 
This it is and nothing more.” 


Presently my soul grew stronger; hesitating then no longer, 
“Sir,” said I, “or Madam, truly your forgiveness I implore; 
But the fact is I was napping, and so gently you came rapping, 
And so faintly you came tapping, tapping at my chamber door, 
That I scarce was sure I heard you” — here I opened wide the 
door; — 
Darkness there and nothing more. 


The world goes silent. I see no one. I have never really been alone 
before, always with my family. Or my friends. Or my love. 

A Peacekeeper slides an envelope of money, my victor winnings, 
under my door every week, and leaves a food parcel on the porch. On the 
envelope, meat and bread and milk and various supplies have been 
meticulously deducted. Who has arranged this service? The president? Is he 
still insisting on keeping me alive? 

I would welcome death, if it wasn’t for my promise to Lenore Dove 
that I would somehow keep the sun from rising on the reaping. The 
impossibility of it adds to my despair. I drain the bottles of sleep syrup to 
escape reality, only to feed her gumdrops in my dreams. 


Deep into that darkness peering, long I stood there wondering, 
fearing, 
Doubting, dreaming dreams no mortal ever dared to dream before; 
But the silence was unbroken, and the stillness gave no 
token, 
And the only word there spoken was the whispered word, “Lenore?” 
This I whispered, and an echo murmured back the word, “Lenore!” 
Merely this and nothing more. 


Back into the chamber turning, all my soul within me 
burning, 
Soon again I heard a tapping somewhat louder than before. 
“Surely,” said I, “surely that is something at my window lattice; 
Let me see, then, what thereat is, and this mystery explore — 
Let my heart be still a moment and this mystery explore; — 
’Tis the wind and nothing more!” 


I go looking for her one night, searching for freshly overturned earth 
and a new headstone in the graveyard on the hill. The others are there — 
Ma, Sid, my fellow tributes — but not Lenore Dove. 

The Covey’s crooked house stands dark and silent in the moonlight. I 
roam around the yard like a stray dog, curl up under her window, yearning 
for her ghost to find me. It must be three in the morning when the fiddle 
begins, soft and low, playing her song. 


Does Clerk Carmine somehow know I’m there? Is this his attempt to 
drive me stark raving mad? I pound on the door, screaming at the top of my 
lungs, “Where is she? Where is she?” 

The fiddle falls silent. But it’s too late. The earworm has awoken. 


Open here I flung the shutter, when, with many a flirt and flutter, 

In there stepped a stately Raven of the saintly days of yore; 

Not the least obeisance made he; not a minute stopped or stayed he; 

But, with mien of lord or lady, perched above my chamber door — 

Perched upon a bust of Pallas just above my chamber door — 
Perched, and sat, and nothing more. 


Then this ebony bird beguiling my sad fancy into smiling, 
By the grave and stern decorum of the countenance it wore, 
“Though thy crest be shorn and shaven, thou,” I said, “art sure no 
craven, 
Ghastly grim and ancient Raven wandering from the Nightly shore — 
Tell me what thy lordly name is on the Night’s Plutonian shore!” 
Quoth the Raven “Nevermore. ” 


The sleep syrup runs out and in desperation I begin to visit old 
Bascom Pie, loading a sack with bottles of rotgut, clinking all the way 
home. Some nights I find the oblivion I seek, others I wander through the 
dark. One morning, as I awake half-naked on the green outside my house, 
covered in mosquito bites, I realize where she must be. That her uncles 
would not have laid her to rest in the District 12 graveyard but taken her 
somewhere she loved. That they all loved. The woods. 

I am a man on a mission. For weeks, I wander through the trees, circle 
the lake, examine the soil under the apple trees, looking for any sign of her. 
Entreating the mockingjays for a clue to her whereabouts. Calling her name 
into the wind. The leaves turn scarlet and gold, crunching beneath my feet. 
“Lenore Dove! Lenore Dove!” I cry, but she doesn’t reveal herself. 

Burdock comes, though, appearing out of the mist. His leather jacket 
fastened against the frost, his bow in hand, a brace of wild turkey at his hip. 
He has not forgiven me, will never, but is not beyond pity. Perhaps because 
he knows what it is to love. “If you want her, come on” is all he says. And I 


do want her, just as long ago I wanted the apples he promised, and so I 
follow him far, far into the woods. Beyond the lake, beyond my ken, to a 
hidden grove no normal human eye could detect. And here he leaves me. 
A small, secret graveyard with beautifully carved headstones. Covey. 
Each marked only with a snippet of their name poems. 
Among them, on a creamy white stone: 


“Lady,” he said, — “Maude Clare,” he said, — 
“Maude Clare”: — and hid his face. 


On a mossy slab of slate: 


— Yet some maintain that to this day 
She is a living child; 

That you may see sweet Lucy Gray 
Upon the lonesome wild. 


And on a gray rock, speckled with pink and purple: 


But the silence was unbroken, and the stillness gave no token, 

And the only word there spoken was the whispered word, “Lenore?” 

This I whispered, and an echo murmured back the word, “Lenore!” 
Merely this and nothing more. 


I lie on her grave and remain there as night falls, dawn breaks, and 
blackness descends again. I tell her everything and beg her to return to me, 
to wait for me, to forgive me for all the ways in which I have failed. 

When dawn breaks on the second day, she has not come. I bury the 
flint striker, snake and bird, in front of her headstone. I ask her to free me 
from my final promise. I ask her to let me come to her now. I ask her for a 
sign. Then I somehow make my way home and fall asleep . . . where I feed 
her another gumdrop. 


Much I marvelled this ungainly fowl to hear discourse so plainly. 
Though its answer little meaning — little relevancy bore; 


For we cannot help agreeing that no living human being 

Ever yet was blessed with seeing bird above his chamber door — 

Bird or beast upon the sculptured bust above his chamber door, 
With such name as “Nevermore.” 


But the Raven, sitting lonely on the placid bust, spoke only 

That one word, as if his soul in that one word he did outpour. 

Nothing farther then he uttered — not a feather then he fluttered — 

Till I scarcely more than muttered “Other friends have flown before — 

On the morrow he will leave me, as my Hopes have flown before.” 
Then the bird said “Nevermore.” 


I hit the bottle even harder. Drinking, disappearing into the night, 
regaining consciousness in the forgotten places of District 12. One morning, 
at the crack of dawn, I snap awake, shivering, in a back alley in town. I’m 
staring at a message sprayed in bright orange paint. NO CAPITOL, NO 
HANGING TREE! It’s a rebel play on the Capitol’s propaganda. NO 
CAPITOL, NO REAPING! Tucked away in this alley, a rallying cry beyond 
the Peacekeepers’ radar. 

A memory tugs at me... Maysilee in the arena... after she killed the 
Gamemaker . . . spider silk and her mamaw’s song... 

“Well, your gal’s full of surprises. Guess she got the jump on us after 
all.” 

Full of surprises. Full of secrets, even from me. But Maysilee had put 
it together. Orange paint on her fingernails. This is Lenore Dove’s work. 
Her sign. Her message to me now. Her reminder that I must prevent another 
sunrise on the reaping. 

And it says, “You promised me.” 

With that, she condemns me to life. 


Startled at the stillness broken by reply so aptly spoken, 
“Doubtless,” said I, “what it utters is its only stock and store 
Caught from some unhappy master whom unmerciful Disaster 
Followed fast and followed faster till his songs one burden bore — 
Till the dirges of his Hope that melancholy burden bore — 

Of ‘Never — nevermore.’” 


But the Raven still beguiling my sad fancy into smiling, 
Straight I wheeled a cushioned seat in front of bird, and bust and 
door; 
Then, upon the velvet sinking, I betook myself to linking 
Fancy unto fancy, thinking what this ominous bird of yore — 
What this grim, ungainly, ghastly, gaunt, and ominous bird of yore 
Meant in croaking “Nevermore.” 


Now that Lenore Dove has said her piece, other ghosts, filled with 
hate and rage, visit me in the night. Panache seems to have little to do but 
hunt me down and Silka thinks I owe her a crown. The terror bleeds into 
my waking hours. I start sleeping with a knife in my hand. 

It’s Effie Trinket who finds me thus, the morning of the Victory Tour. 
I come to, startled, to discover she’s taken possession of my knife. “I’m so 
sorry about your family’s accident, Haymitch. And then your girl’s 
appendicitis right after? Tragic. But this just won’t do. We have a 
responsibility to carry on.” 

My family’s accident? Lenore Dove’s appendicitis? She’s right. I do 
have a responsibility to carry on. But how can I? 

I let Effie pour coffee down me. Send me to the tub until Proserpina 
and Vitus can stomach me. Button me into a paisley suit that Great-Uncle 
Silius never had occasion to wear, and somehow make me presentable as I 
board the train to District 11. 

“Word got out. Magno was fired for negligence and Drusilla broke her 
hip falling down an escalator,” Plutarch tells me in confidence. “It seems 
Maysilee was right about those heels. Anyway, I pitched Effie last-minute 
and they jumped on the idea. Especially since she brought the depraved 
uncle’s wardrobe with her.” 

“How are you here, Plutarch?” I ask. It’s a question that could be 
answered on many levels. He chooses the most superficial. 

“1’m here to record your Victory Tour. It’s in my contract. Hey, you 
look like you could do with a sandwich. Tibby!” 

A different train than I rode before. Fancier. Lots of steel and chrome. 
Dove-colored velvet upholstery, lest I forget. Trying to forget is my full- 
time job now. 


Effie does her best to keep me sober, but the train’s loaded with 
booze. 


This I sat engaged in guessing, but no syllable expressing 

To the fowl whose fiery eyes now burned into my bosom’s core; 

This and more I sat divining, with my head at ease reclining 

On the cushion’s velvet lining that the lamp-light gloated o’er, 

But whose velvet-violet lining with the lamp-light gloating o’er, 
She shall press, ah, nevermore! 


Then, methought, the air grew denser, perfumed from an unseen 
censer 

Swung by seraphim whose foot-falls tinkled on the tufted floor. 

“Wretch,” I cried, “thy God hath lent thee — by these angels he hath 
sent thee 

Respite — respite and nepenthe from thy memories of Lenore; 

Quaff, oh quaff this kind nepenthe and forget this lost Lenore!” 

Quoth the Raven “Nevermore.” 


In District 11, I stand on the steps of their Justice Building facing the 
grief-stricken families of Hull, Tile, Chicory, and the other girl, Blossom. I 
search the wider sea of faces for Lou Lou’s kin and come up empty. 

The party begins. I drink my way through the festivities, which run far 
into the night. When the Justice Building finally sleeps, Plutarch spirits me 
up multiple stairways and into the attic. 

“Respite and nepenthe,” I mutter into my bottle. 

Plutarch yanks it from my hand. “Listen, Haymitch, we don’t have 
long. This attic is the only spot in the entire Justice Building that isn’t 
bugged.” 

Well, he might be right about that. The place looks like it hasn’t been 
disturbed in a hundred years. There’s a coat of dust so thick you could 
comfortably sleep on it. Why you’d sneak off to this place for privacy 
instead of stepping outside the Justice Building, I don’t know and I don’t 
care. There’s nothing left they can do to me. Unlike Plutarch. 

“How is it you’re looking so well, Plutarch? Wiress and Mags were 
tortured, right? And I’m guessing Beetee’s dead.” 


“Beetee’s too valuable to kill.” 

“T thought he’d have killed himself.” 

“He can’t. His wife’s pregnant. Besides, he wouldn’t let Ampert down 
that way.” 

“Oh, I see. He’s going to overthrow the Capitol, is he?” 

“Maybe one day. But we can’t any of us do it alone. You 
demonstrated a lot of nerve and intelligence in that arena. We need your 
help.” 

“Me?” I say in disbelief. “I am living proof that the Capitol always 
wins. I tried to keep that sun from rising on another reaping day, I tried to 
change things, and now everybody’s dead. You don’t want me.” And I don’t 
want him. I don’t want help from anybody in the Capitol ever again. I could 
never trust them. 

“We do want you. You shook up the Capitol, both figuratively and 
literally, with that earthquake. You were capable of imagining a different 
future. And maybe it won’t be realized today, maybe not in our lifetime. 
Maybe it will take generations. We’re all part of a continuum. Does that 
make it pointless?” 

“T just don’t know. But I do know, you need someone different from 
me.” 

“No, Haymitch, we need someone exactly like you.” 

“Just luckier?” I say. 

“Luckier, or with better timing. Having an army at their back 
wouldn’t hurt.” 

“Sure, that would’ve helped. Where’re you going to get an army, 
Plutarch?” 

“Tf we can’t find one, we’ll have to build one. But obviously, finding 
one’s easier.” 

“And then we can all kill one another, like back in the good old Dark 
Days?” 

“Well, you know better than anyone what we’re up against with Snow. 
If you think of another way to stop that sunrise, you let me know.” 


“Prophet!” said I, “thing of evil! — prophet still, if bird or devil! — 
Whether Tempter sent, or whether tempest tossed thee here ashore, 
Desolate yet all undaunted, on this desert land enchanted — 


On this home by Horror haunted — tell me truly, I implore — 
Is there — is there balm in Gilead? — tell me — tell me, I implore!” 
Quoth the Raven “Nevermore.” 


“Prophet!” said I, “thing of evil! — prophet still, if bird or devil! 

By that Heaven that bends above us — by that God we both adore — 

Tell this soul with sorrow laden if, within the distant Aidenn, 

It shall clasp a sainted maiden whom the angels name Lenore — 

Clasp a rare and radiant maiden whom the angels name Lenore.” 
Quoth the Raven “Nevermore. ” 


I avoid speaking to Plutarch for the rest of the Victory Tour. Through 
all the districts, where I stand on stages looking down at the families of the 
dead tributes. Through all the parties that culminate in the Capitol, where 
I’m returned to my comfy cage. Through all the strained festivities in 
District 12. 

My team heads to the train. Plutarch and his crew do a style piece on 
my new house and tape a parting shot of me in the yard. As I stand there, 
staring at my prison, unwilling to cross the threshold and resume my 
sentence, he joins me. 

“All right there, Haymitch>?” 

“T have nothing to live for.” I say this without even a note of self-pity. 
I am simply stating a fact. 

“Then you have nothing to lose. That puts you in a position of 
power.” 

I would like to kill him at that moment, but what would be the point? 
Instead, I say, “You think you’re a good person, don’t you, Plutarch? You 
think you’re a good guy because you told me about the sun and the berms. 
When what you really did is help create the Capitol’s propaganda and 
broadcast it to the country. Forty-nine kids died for it, but you gave it the 
old Heavensbee spin and, in that propo, you’re some kind of hero.” 

Plutarch takes a moment to answer. “I’m nobody’s idea of a hero, 
Haymitch. But at least I’m still in the game.” 


“Be that word our sign of parting, bird or fiend!” I shrieked, 
upstarting — 


“Get thee back into the tempest and the Night’s Plutonian shore! 

Leave no black plume as a token of that lie thy soul hath spoken! 

Leave my loneliness unbroken! — quit the bust above my door! 

Take thy beak from out my heart, and take thy form from off my door!” 
Quoth the Raven “Nevermore. ” 


And the Raven, never flitting, still is sitting, still is sitting 
On the pallid bust of Pallas just above my chamber door; 
And his eyes have all the seeming of a demon’s that is dreaming, 
And the lamp-light o’er him streaming throws his shadow on the 
floor; 
And my soul from out that shadow that lies floating on the floor 
Shall be lifted — nevermore! 


And so I remain, forever trapped in my chamber. 

I am so desperate to forget. To escape the grief, the aching loneliness, 
the loss of those I love. There are no mementos of them; all are burned or 
buried. I work on forgetting their voices, their faces, their laughs. Even in 
my head, my language becomes dull and flat, stripped of the color and 
music of yesterday. 

The only human contact I allow myself arrives by way of Capitol 
News, which I play on my television set 24/7. That way, if Lenore Dove’s 
ghost ever comes to me, I can tell her I’m working on a strategy to keep that 
sun from rising. 

I make no plans, have no hopes, keep no company, speak to no human 
being except old Bascom Pie when my nepenthe runs low. But I can’t say I 
have no future, because I know that every year for my birthday, I will get a 
new pair of tributes, one girl and one boy, to mentor to their deaths. Another 
sunrise on the reaping. 

And when I remember that, I hear Sid’s voice, waking me the 
morning that raven first tapped on my chamber door. 

“Happy birthday, Haymitch!” 


EPILOGUE 


When Lenore Dove comes to me now, she’s not angry or dying, so I 
think she’s forgiven me. She’s grown older with me, her face etched with 
fine lines, her hair touched with gray. Like she’s been living her life beside 
me as the years passed, instead of lying in her grave. Still so rare and 
radiant. I fulfilled my promise about the reaping, or at least lent a hand, but 
she says I can’t come to her yet. I have to look after my family. 

I first saw the girl at the Hob when she was just a baby. Burdock was 
so proud of her, he toted her around everywhere. After he died in that mine 
explosion, she started coming alone, trading the odd squirrel or rabbit. 
Tough and smart, her hair in two braids then, reminding me for all the world 
of Louella McCoy, my sweetheart of old. And after she volunteered for the 
Games, that nickname couldn’t help but slip out. I didn’t want to let them 
in, her and Peeta, but the walls of a person’s heart are not impregnable, not 
if they have ever known love. That’s what Lenore Dove says, anyway. 

I didn’t want to have anything to do with their memorial book after 
the war. What use? What point? To relive all the loss. But when Burdock’s 
page came up, I had to mention him showing me the grave. And I felt 
compelled to tell them about Maysilee Donner, former owner of the 
mockingjay pin. And how Sid loved the stars. Before I knew it, they all 
came tumbling out: family, tributes, friends, comrades in arms, everybody, 
even my love. I finally told our story. 

A few days after that, Katniss showed up with an old basket filled 
with goose eggs. “Not to eat, to hatch. I raided a few different nests, so they 
can breed all right.” Never mind that we had roast goose for dinner. She’s 


not an easy person; she’s like me, Peeta always says. But she was smarter 
than me, or luckier. She’s the one who finally kept that sun from rising. 

Peeta fashioned some kind of incubator, and when the eggs hatched, 
mine was the first face those goslings saw. Sometimes they just graze on the 
green, but on fine days, we’ve been known to wander on over to the 
Meadow. Lenore Dove likes it best there, and I’m content where she’s 
content. Like the geese, we really did mate for life. 

I’m not sure I’ II be here in the old therebefore much longer. My 
liver’s wrecked and I only dry out when the train’s late. I drink differently 
these days, though, less to forget, more out of habit. When my time comes, 
it comes, but I’ve no idea when that will be. 

I know one thing, though: The Capitol can never take Lenore Dove 
from me again. They never really did in the first place. Nothing you can 
take from me was ever worth keeping, and she is the most precious thing 
I’ve ever known. 

When I tell her that, she always says, “I love you like all-fire.” 

And I reply, “I love you like all-fire, too.” 


THE END 


The story continues... 


SUZANNE 
COLLINS 


Turn the page to read the first chapter of 
The Hunger Games. 


] 


When I wake up, the other side of the bed is cold. My fingers stretch 
out, seeking Prim’s warmth but finding only the rough canvas cover of the 
mattress. She must have had bad dreams and climbed in with our mother. 
Of course, she did. This is the day of the reaping. 

I prop myself up on one elbow. There’s enough light in the bedroom 
to see them. My little sister, Prim, curled up on her side, cocooned in my 
mother’s body, their cheeks pressed together. In sleep, my mother looks 
younger, still worn but not so beaten-down. Prim’s face is as fresh as a 
raindrop, as lovely as the primrose for which she was named. My mother 
was very beautiful once, too. Or so they tell me. 

Sitting at Prim’s knees, guarding her, is the world’s ugliest cat. 
Mashed-in nose, half of one ear missing, eyes the color of rotting squash. 
Prim named him Buttercup, insisting that his muddy yellow coat matched 
the bright flower. He hates me. Or at least distrusts me. Even though it was 
years ago, I think he still remembers how I tried to drown him in a bucket 
when Prim brought him home. Scrawny kitten, belly swollen with worms, 
crawling with fleas. The last thing I needed was another mouth to feed. But 
Prim begged so hard, cried even, I had to let him stay. It turned out okay. 
My mother got rid of the vermin and he’s a born mouser. Even catches the 


occasional rat. Sometimes, when I clean a kill, I feed Buttercup the entrails. 
He has stopped hissing at me. 

Entrails. No hissing. This is the closest we will ever come to love. 

I swing my legs off the bed and slide into my hunting boots. Supple 
leather that has molded to my feet. I pull on trousers, a shirt, tuck my long 
dark braid up into a cap, and grab my forage bag. On the table, under a 
wooden bowl to protect it from hungry rats and cats alike, sits a perfect 
little goat cheese wrapped in basil leaves. Prim’s gift to me on reaping day. 
I put the cheese carefully in my pocket as I slip outside. 

Our part of District 12, nicknamed the Seam, is usually crawling with 
coal miners heading out to the morning shift at this hour. Men and women 
with hunched shoulders, swollen knuckles, many who have long since 
stopped trying to scrub the coal dust out of their broken nails, the lines of 
their sunken faces. But today the black cinder streets are empty. Shutters on 
the squat gray houses are closed. The reaping isn’t until two. May as well 
sleep in. If you can. 

Our house is almost at the edge of the Seam. I only have to pass a few 
gates to reach the scruffy field called the Meadow. Separating the Meadow 
from the woods, in fact enclosing all of District 12, is a high chain-link 
fence topped with barbed-wire loops. In theory, it’s supposed to be 
electrified twenty-four hours a day as a deterrent to the predators that live in 
the woods — packs of wild dogs, lone cougars, bears — that used to 
threaten our streets. But since we’re lucky to get two or three hours of 
electricity in the evenings, it’s usually safe to touch. Even so, I always take 
a moment to listen carefully for the hum that means the fence is live. Right 
now, it’s silent as a stone. Concealed by a clump of bushes, I flatten out on 
my belly and slide under a two-foot stretch that’s been loose for years. 
There are several other weak spots in the fence, but this one is so close to 
home I almost always enter the woods here. 

As soon as I’m in the trees, I retrieve a bow and sheath of arrows from 
a hollow log. Electrified or not, the fence has been successful at keeping the 
flesh-eaters out of District 12. Inside the woods they roam freely, and there 
are added concerns like venomous snakes, rabid animals, and no real paths 
to follow. But there’s also food if you know how to find it. My father knew 
and he taught me some before he was blown to bits in a mine explosion. 


There was nothing even to bury. I was eleven then. Five years later, I still 
wake up screaming for him to run. 

Even though trespassing in the woods is illegal and poaching carries 
the severest of penalties, more people would risk it if they had weapons. 
But most are not bold enough to venture out with just a knife. My bow is a 
rarity, crafted by my father along with a few others that I keep well hidden 
in the woods, carefully wrapped in waterproof covers. My father could have 
made good money selling them, but if the officials found out he would have 
been publicly executed for inciting a rebellion. Most of the Peacekeepers 
turn a blind eye to the few of us who hunt because they’re as hungry for 
fresh meat as anybody is. In fact, they’re among our best customers. But the 
idea that someone might be arming the Seam would never have been 
allowed. 

In the fall, a few brave souls sneak into the woods to harvest apples. 
But always in sight of the Meadow. Always close enough to run back to the 
safety of District 12 if trouble arises. “District Twelve. Where you can 
starve to death in safety,” I mutter. Then I glance quickly over my shoulder. 
Even here, even in the middle of nowhere, you worry someone might 
overhear you. 

When I was younger, I scared my mother to death, the things I would 
blurt out about District 12, about the people who rule our country, Panem, 
from the far-off city called the Capitol. Eventually I understood this would 
only lead us to more trouble. So I learned to hold my tongue and to turn my 
features into an indifferent mask so that no one could ever read my 
thoughts. Do my work quietly in school. Make only polite small talk in the 
public market. Discuss little more than trades in the Hob, which is the black 
market where I make most of my money. Even at home, where I am less 
pleasant, I avoid discussing tricky topics. Like the reaping, or food 
shortages, or the Hunger Games. Prim might begin to repeat my words and 
then where would we be? 

In the woods waits the only person with whom I can be myself. Gale. 
I can feel the muscles in my face relaxing, my pace quickening as I climb 
the hills to our place, a rock ledge overlooking a valley. A thicket of berry 
bushes protects it from unwanted eyes. The sight of him waiting there 
brings on a smile. Gale says I never smile except in the woods. 


“Hey, Catnip,” says Gale. My real name is Katniss, but when I first 
told him, I had barely whispered it. So he thought I’d said Catnip. Then 
when this crazy lynx started following me around the woods looking for 
handouts, it became his official nickname for me. I finally had to kill the 
lynx because he scared off game. I almost regretted it because he wasn’t 
bad company. But I got a decent price for his pelt. 

“Look what I shot.” Gale holds up a loaf of bread with an arrow stuck 
in it, and I laugh. It’s real bakery bread, not the flat, dense loaves we make 
from our grain rations. I take it in my hands, pull out the arrow, and hold the 
puncture in the crust to my nose, inhaling the fragrance that makes my 
mouth flood with saliva. Fine bread like this is for special occasions. 

“Mim, still warm,” I say. He must have been at the bakery at the crack 
of dawn to trade for it. “What did it cost you?” 

“Just a squirrel. Think the old man was feeling sentimental this 
morning,” says Gale. “Even wished me luck.” 

“Well, we all feel a little closer today, don’t we?” I say, not even 
bothering to roll my eyes. “Prim left us a cheese.” I pull it out. 

His expression brightens at the treat. “Thank you, Prim. We’ll have a 
real feast.” Suddenly he falls into a Capitol accent as he mimics Effie 
Trinket, the maniacally upbeat woman who arrives once a year to read out 
the names at the reaping. “I almost forgot! Happy Hunger Games!” He 
plucks a few blackberries from the bushes around us. “And may the odds 
—” He tosses a berry in a high arc toward me. 

I catch it in my mouth and break the delicate skin with my teeth. The 
Sweet tartness explodes across my tongue. “— be ever in your favor!” I 
finish with equal verve. We have to joke about it because the alternative is 
to be scared out of your wits. Besides, the Capitol accent is so affected, 
almost anything sounds funny in it. 

I watch as Gale pulls out his knife and slices the bread. He could be 
my brother. Straight black hair, olive skin, we even have the same gray 
eyes. But we’re not related, at least not closely. Most of the families who 
work the mines resemble one another this way. 

That’s why my mother and Prim, with their light hair and blue eyes, 
always look out of place. They are. My mother’s parents were part of the 
small merchant class that caters to officials, Peacekeepers, and the 
occasional Seam customer. They ran an apothecary shop in the nicer part of 


District 12. Since almost no one can afford doctors, apothecaries are our 
healers. My father got to know my mother because on his hunts he would 
sometimes collect medicinal herbs and sell them to her shop to be brewed 
into remedies. She must have really loved him to leave her home for the 
Seam. I try to remember that when all I can see is the woman who sat by, 
blank and unreachable, while her children turned to skin and bones. I try to 
forgive her for my father’s sake. But to be honest, I’m not the forgiving 
type. 

Gale spreads the bread slices with the soft goat cheese, carefully 
placing a basil leaf on each while I strip the bushes of their berries. We 
settle back in a nook in the rocks. From this place, we are invisible but have 
a clear view of the valley, which is teeming with summer life, greens to 
gather, roots to dig, fish iridescent in the sunlight. The day is glorious, with 
a blue sky and soft breeze. The food’s wonderful, with the cheese seeping 
into the warm bread and the berries bursting in our mouths. Everything 
would be perfect if this really was a holiday, if all the day off meant was 
roaming the mountains with Gale, hunting for tonight’s supper. But instead 
we have to be standing in the square at two o’clock waiting for the names to 
be called out. 

“We could do it, you know,” Gale says quietly. 

“What?” I ask. 

“Leave the district. Run off. Live in the woods. You and I, we could 
make it,” says Gale. 

I don’t know how to respond. The idea is so preposterous. 

“Tf we didn’t have so many kids,” he adds quickly. 

They’re not our kids, of course. But they might as well be. Gale’s two 
little brothers and a sister. Prim. And you may as well throw in our mothers, 
too, because how would they live without us? Who would fill those mouths 
that are always asking for more? With both of us hunting daily, there are 
still nights when game has to be swapped for lard or shoelaces or wool, still 
nights when we go to bed with our stomachs growling. 

“T never want to have kids,” I say. 

“T might. If I didn’t live here,” says Gale. 

“But you do,” I say, irritated. 

“Forget it,” he snaps back. 


The conversation feels all wrong. Leave? How could I leave Prim, 
who is the only person in the world I’m certain I love? And Gale is devoted 
to his family. We can’t leave, so why bother talking about it? And even if 
we did... even if we did. . . where did this stuff about having kids come 
from? There’s never been anything romantic between Gale and me. When 
we met, I was a skinny twelve-year-old, and although he was only two 
years older, he already looked like a man. It took a long time for us to even 
become friends, to stop haggling over every trade and begin helping each 
other out. 

Besides, if he wants kids, Gale won’t have any trouble finding a wife. 
He’s good-looking, he’s strong enough to handle the work in the mines, and 
he can hunt. You can tell by the way the girls whisper about him when he 
walks by in school that they want him. It makes me jealous but not for the 
reason people would think. Good hunting partners are hard to find. 

“What do you want to do?” I ask. We can hunt, fish, or gather. 

“Let’s fish at the lake. We can leave our poles and gather in the 
woods. Get something nice for tonight,” he says. 

Tonight. After the reaping, everyone is supposed to celebrate. And a 
lot of people do, out of relief that their children have been spared for 
another year. But at least two families will pull their shutters, lock their 
doors, and try to figure out how they will survive the painful weeks to 
come. 

We make out well. The predators ignore us on a day when easier, 
tastier prey abounds. By late morning, we have a dozen fish, a bag of greens 
and, best of all, a gallon of strawberries. I found the patch a few years ago, 
but Gale had the idea to string mesh nets around it to keep out the animals. 

On the way home, we swing by the Hob, the black market that 
operates in an abandoned warehouse that once held coal. When they came 
up with a more efficient system that transported the coal directly from the 
mines to the trains, the Hob gradually took over the space. Most businesses 
are closed by this time on reaping day, but the black market’s still fairly 
busy. We easily trade six of the fish for good bread, the other two for salt. 
Greasy Sae, the bony old woman who sells bowls of hot soup from a large 
kettle, takes half the greens off our hands in exchange for a couple of 
chunks of paraffin. We might do a tad better elsewhere, but we make an 
effort to keep on good terms with Greasy Sae. She’s the only one who can 


consistently be counted on to buy wild dog. We don’t hunt them on 
purpose, but if you’re attacked and you take out a dog or two, well, meat is 
meat. “Once it’s in the soup, I’ll call it beef,” Greasy Sae says with a wink. 
No one in the Seam would turn up their nose at a good leg of wild dog, but 
the Peacekeepers who come to the Hob can afford to be a little choosier. 

When we finish our business at the market, we go to the back door of 
the mayor’s house to sell half the strawberries, knowing he has a particular 
fondness for them and can afford our price. The mayor’s daughter, Madge, 
opens the door. She’s in my year at school. Being the mayor’s daughter, 
you’d expect her to be a snob, but she’s all right. She just keeps to herself. 
Like me. Since neither of us really has a group of friends, we seem to end 
up together a lot at school. Eating lunch, sitting next to each other at 
assemblies, partnering for sports activities. We rarely talk, which suits us 
both just fine. 

Today her drab school outfit has been replaced by an expensive white 
dress, and her blonde hair is done up with a pink ribbon. Reaping clothes. 

“Pretty dress,” says Gale. 

Madge shoots him a look, trying to see if it’s a genuine compliment or 
if he’s just being ironic. It is a pretty dress, but she would never be wearing 
it ordinarily. She presses her lips together and then smiles. “Well, if I end up 
going to the Capitol, I want to look nice, don’t I?” 

Now it’s Gale’s turn to be confused. Does she mean it? Or is she 
messing with him? I’m guessing the second. 

“You won’t be going to the Capitol,” says Gale coolly. His eyes land 
on a small, circular pin that adorns her dress. Real gold. Beautifully crafted. 
It could keep a family in bread for months. “What can you have? Five 
entries? I had six when I was just twelve years old.” 

“That’s not her fault,” I say. 

“No, it’s no one’s fault. Just the way it is,” says Gale. 

Madge’s face has become closed off. She puts the money for the 
berries in my hand. “Good luck, Katniss.” 

“You, too,” I say, and the door closes. 

We walk toward the Seam in silence. I don’t like that Gale took a dig 
at Madge, but he’s right, of course. The reaping system is unfair, with the 
poor getting the worst of it. You become eligible for the reaping the day you 
turn twelve. That year, your name is entered once. At thirteen, twice. And 


so on and so on until you reach the age of eighteen, the final year of 
eligibility, when your name goes into the pool seven times. That’s true for 
every citizen in all twelve districts in the entire country of Panem. 

But here’s the catch. Say you are poor and starving as we were. You 
can opt to add your name more times in exchange for tesserae. Each tessera 
is worth a meager year’s supply of grain and oil for one person. You may do 
this for each of your family members as well. So, at the age of twelve, I had 
my name entered four times. Once, because I had to, and three times for 
tesserae for grain and oil for myself, Prim, and my mother. In fact, every 
year I have needed to do this. And the entries are cumulative. So now, at the 
age of sixteen, my name will be in the reaping twenty times. Gale, who is 
eighteen and has been either helping or single-handedly feeding a family of 
five for seven years, will have his name in forty-two times. 

You can see why someone like Madge, who has never been at risk of 
needing a tessera, can set him off. The chance of her name being drawn is 
very slim compared to those of us who live in the Seam. Not impossible, 
but slim. And even though the rules were set up by the Capitol, not the 
districts, certainly not Madge’s family, it’s hard not to resent those who 
don’t have to sign up for tesserae. 

Gale knows his anger at Madge is misdirected. On other days, deep in 
the woods, I’ve listened to him rant about how the tesserae are just another 
tool to cause misery in our district. A way to plant hatred between the 
starving workers of the Seam and those who can generally count on supper 
and thereby ensure we will never trust one another. “It’s to the Capitol’s 
advantage to have us divided among ourselves,” he might say if there were 
no ears to hear but mine. If it wasn’t reaping day. If a girl with a gold pin 
and no tesserae had not made what I’m sure she thought was a harmless 
comment. 

As we walk, I glance over at Gale’s face, still smoldering underneath 
his stony expression. His rages seem pointless to me, although I never say 
so. It’s not that I don’t agree with him. I do. But what good is yelling about 
the Capitol in the middle of the woods? It doesn’t change anything. It 
doesn’t make things fair. It doesn’t fill our stomachs. In fact, it scares off 
the nearby game. I let him yell though. Better he does it in the woods than 
in the district. 


Gale and I divide our spoils, leaving two fish, a couple of loaves of 
good bread, greens, a quart of strawberries, salt, paraffin, and a bit of 
money for each. 

“See you in the square,” I say. 

“Wear something pretty,” he says flatly. 

At home, I find my mother and sister are ready to go. My mother 
wears a fine dress from her apothecary days. Prim is in my first reaping 
outfit, a skirt and ruffled blouse. It’s a bit big on her, but my mother has 
made it stay with pins. Even so, she’s having trouble keeping the blouse 
tucked in at the back. 

A tub of warm water waits for me. I scrub off the dirt and sweat from 
the woods and even wash my hair. To my surprise, my mother has laid out 
one of her own lovely dresses for me. A soft blue thing with matching 
shoes. 

“Are you sure?” I ask. I’m trying to get past rejecting offers of help 
from her. For a while, I was so angry, I wouldn’t allow her to do anything 
for me. And this is something special. Her clothes from her past are very 
precious to her. 

“Of course. Let’s put your hair up, too,” she says. I let her towel-dry it 
and braid it up on my head. I can hardly recognize myself in the cracked 
mirror that leans against the wall. 

“You look beautiful,” says Prim in a hushed voice. 

“And nothing like myself,” I say. I hug her, because I know these next 
few hours will be terrible for her. Her first reaping. She’s about as safe as 
you can get, since she’s only entered once. I wouldn’t let her take out any 
tesserae. But she’s worried about me. That the unthinkable might happen. 

I protect Prim in every way I can, but I’m powerless against the 
reaping. The anguish I always feel when she’s in pain wells up in my chest 
and threatens to register on my face. I notice her blouse has pulled out of 
her skirt in the back again and force myself to stay calm. “Tuck your tail in, 
little duck,” I say, smoothing the blouse back in place. 

Prim giggles and gives me a small “Quack.” 

“Quack yourself,” I say with a light laugh. The kind only Prim can 
draw out of me. “Come on, let’s eat,” I say and plant a quick kiss on the top 
of her head. 


The fish and greens are already cooking in a stew, but that will be for 
supper. We decide to save the strawberries and bakery bread for this 
evening’s meal, to make it special we say. Instead we drink milk from 
Prim’s goat, Lady, and eat the rough bread made from the tessera grain, 
although no one has much appetite anyway. 

At one o’clock, we head for the square. Attendance is mandatory 
unless you are on death’s door. This evening, officials will come around and 
check to see if this is the case. If not, you’|l be imprisoned. 

It’s too bad, really, that they hold the reaping in the square — one of 
the few places in District 12 that can be pleasant. The square’s surrounded 
by shops, and on public market days, especially if there’s good weather, it 
has a holiday feel to it. But today, despite the bright banners hanging on the 
buildings, there’s an air of grimness. The camera crews, perched like 
buzzards on rooftops, only add to the effect. 

People file in silently and sign in. The reaping is a good opportunity 
for the Capitol to keep tabs on the population as well. Twelve- through 
eighteen-year-olds are herded into roped areas marked off by ages, the 
oldest in the front, the young ones, like Prim, toward the back. Family 
members line up around the perimeter, holding tightly to one another’s 
hands. But there are others, too, who have no one they love at stake, or who 
no longer care, who slip among the crowd, taking bets on the two kids 
whose names will be drawn. Odds are given on their ages, whether they’re 
Seam or merchant, if they will break down and weep. Most refuse dealing 
with the racketeers but carefully, carefully. These same people tend to be 
informers, and who hasn’t broken the law? I could be shot on a daily basis 
for hunting, but the appetites of those in charge protect me. Not everyone 
can claim the same. 

Anyway, Gale and I agree that if we have to choose between dying of 
hunger and a bullet in the head, the bullet would be much quicker. 

The space gets tighter, more claustrophobic as people arrive. The 
square’s quite large, but not enough to hold District 12’s population of 
about eight thousand. Latecomers are directed to the adjacent streets, where 
they can watch the event on screens as it’s televised live by the state. 

I find myself standing in a clump of sixteens from the Seam. We all 
exchange terse nods then focus our attention on the temporary stage that is 
set up before the Justice Building. It holds three chairs, a podium, and two 


large glass balls, one for the boys and one for the girls. I stare at the paper 
slips in the girls’ ball. Twenty of them have Katniss Everdeen written on 
them in careful handwriting. 

Two of the three chairs fill with Madge’s father, Mayor Undersee, 
who’s a tall, balding man, and Effie Trinket, District 12’s escort, fresh from 
the Capitol with her scary white grin, pinkish hair, and spring green suit. 
They murmur to each other and then look with concern at the empty seat. 

Just as the town clock strikes two, the mayor steps up to the podium 
and begins to read. It’s the same story every year. He tells of the history of 
Panem, the country that rose up out of the ashes of a place that was once 
called North America. He lists the disasters, the droughts, the storms, the 
fires, the encroaching seas that swallowed up so much of the land, the brutal 
war for what little sustenance remained. The result was Panem, a shining 
Capitol ringed by thirteen districts, which brought peace and prosperity to 
its citizens. Then came the Dark Days, the uprising of the districts against 
the Capitol. Twelve were defeated, the thirteenth obliterated. The Treaty of 
Treason gave us the new laws to guarantee peace and, as our yearly 
reminder that the Dark Days must never be repeated, it gave us the Hunger 
Games. 

The rules of the Hunger Games are simple. In punishment for the 
uprising, each of the twelve districts must provide one girl and one boy, 
called tributes, to participate. The twenty-four tributes will be imprisoned in 
a vast outdoor arena that could hold anything from a burning desert to a 
frozen wasteland. Over a period of several weeks, the competitors must 
fight to the death. The last tribute standing wins. 

Taking the kids from our districts, forcing them to kill one another 
while we watch — this is the Capitol’s way of reminding us how totally we 
are at their mercy. How little chance we would stand of surviving another 
rebellion. Whatever words they use, the real message is clear. “Look how 
we take your children and sacrifice them and there’s nothing you can do. If 
you lift a finger, we will destroy every last one of you. Just as we did in 
District Thirteen.” 

To make it humiliating as well as torturous, the Capitol requires us to 
treat the Hunger Games as a festivity, a sporting event pitting every district 
against the others. The last tribute alive receives a life of ease back home, 
and their district will be showered with prizes, largely consisting of food. 


All year, the Capitol will show the winning district gifts of grain and oil and 
even delicacies like sugar while the rest of us battle starvation. 

“Tt is both a time for repentance and a time for thanks,” intones the 
mayor. 

Then he reads the list of past District 12 victors. In seventy-four years, 
we have had exactly two. Only one is still alive. Haymitch Abernathy, a 
paunchy, middle-aged man, who at this moment appears hollering 
something unintelligible, staggers onto the stage, and falls into the third 
chair. He’s drunk. Very. The crowd responds with its token applause, but 
he’s confused and tries to give Effie Trinket a big hug, which she barely 
manages to fend off. 

The mayor looks distressed. Since all of this is being televised, right 
now District 12 is the laughingstock of Panem, and he knows it. He quickly 
tries to pull the attention back to the reaping by introducing Effie Trinket. 

Bright and bubbly as ever, Effie Trinket trots to the podium and gives 
her signature, “Happy Hunger Games! And may the odds be ever in your 
favor!” Her pink hair must be a wig because her curls have shifted slightly 
off-center since her encounter with Haymitch. She goes on a bit about what 
an honor it is to be here, although everyone knows she’s just aching to get 
bumped up to a better district where they have proper victors, not drunks 
who molest you in front of the entire nation. 

Through the crowd, I spot Gale looking back at me with a ghost of a 
smile. As reapings go, this one at least has a slight entertainment factor. But 
suddenly I am thinking of Gale and his forty-two names in that big glass 
ball and how the odds are not in his favor. Not compared to a lot of the 
boys. And maybe he’s thinking the same thing about me because his face 
darkens and he turns away. “But there are still thousands of slips,” I wish I 
could whisper to him. 

It’s time for the drawing. Effie Trinket says as she always does, 
“Ladies first!” and crosses to the glass ball with the girls’ names. She 
reaches in, digs her hand deep into the ball, and pulls out a slip of paper. 
The crowd draws in a collective breath and then you can hear a pin drop, 
and I’m feeling nauseous and so desperately hoping that it’s not me, that it’s 
not me, that it’s not me. 

Effie Trinket crosses back to the podium, smoothes the slip of paper, 
and reads out the name in a clear voice. And it’s not me. 


It’s Primrose Everdeen. 


dcKNOWLedGmentTs 


My dear friend and creative collaborator, James Proimos, passed away on 
July 8, 2024, as I was finishing up this novel. Both an amazing artist and 
writer, his delightfully funny and inventive books encourage his audience to 
consider building a kinder and gentler world, one cupcake at a time. My 
personal favorites include The Many Adventures of Johnny Mutton, Joe’s 
Wish, and Paulie Pastrami Achieves World Peace. 

I’m pretty sure The Hunger Games wouldn’t exist without Jim (which 
is why the first book is dedicated to him). We met on Generation O!, an 
animated TV show that he cocreated. Jim thought I should be an author and 
repeatedly encouraged me to give it a try. He said to write something, 
anything, and then he’d do a few drawings for it and his agent, Rosemary 
Stimola, would have to look at it. So that’s how it started. Neither the ABC 
or counting books we attempted ever found a home — although Jim’s art 
was fantastic. But they gave me enough of a connection to Rosemary that 
on the morning I woke up in a state of excitement with the idea for Gregor 
the Overlander, I felt comfortable calling her at an inappropriately early 
hour and pitching it. The rest unfolded from there. It seems unlikely that I 
would’ve found my way to books without Jim, and I will always be grateful 
to him for opening that door and quietly and persistently nudging me 
through it. 

Jim was one of the truly original thinkers it has been my privilege to 
work with. We collaborated on a number of TV projects, but only one other 
book. I had been struggling to find a way to transform my memories of the 
year my dad was deployed to Vietnam into a picture book. Over a casual 
lunch, I started telling Jim the story. As he responded, I began to see it 
come to life with his art, not dark and heavy-handed but through the eyes of 


a six-year-old. Year of the Jungle was a tough story for me to tell, far more 
personal than my usual writing, and having an empathetic and trusted friend 
by my side gave me the courage to explore it. His incredible art, which 
transforms the jungle from a magical playground to a terrifying nightmare 
while maintaining a childlike visual style, made the book possible. 

For the encouragement, for the jungle, and for the many years of your 
kindness, humor, patience, talent, and friendship, thank you, Jim. At this 
point, I think it’s safe to say, “We will never drift apart.” 

In addition, I’d like to thank my gander and first reader, Cap Pryor; 
my son, Charlie; and my aforementioned agent, Rosemary, for their 
impactful early response to this book. Good friends Richard Register and 
Michael Arndt also gave invaluable support and input on the story. 

Coming home to Scholastic is always a joy. Deep appreciation once 
again for my editorial director, David Levithan, who has always been so 
generous in sharing his extraordinary authorial expertise; my first and 
always editor, Kate Egan, who has beautifully advised me from the first 
Gregor book; the responsive Emily Seife, whose heartfelt emotional notes 
gave me a much needed boost when my batteries were running low; our 
terrific copy editor, Joy Simpkins, for catching what the rest of us do not; 
and Elizabeth Parisi and Tim O’Brien for another gorgeous cover. 

A big shout-out to the rest of my fabulous publishing family: the late, 
great Dick Robinson, Iole Lucchese, Peter Warwick, Ellie Berger, Rachel 
Coun, Lizette Serrano, Tracy van Straaten, Katy Coyle, Madeline 
Muschalik, Mark Seidenfeld, Leslie Garych, Erin O’Connor, JoAnne 
Mojica, Melissa Schirmer, Maeve Norton, Bonnie Cutler, Nelson Gomez, 
Lauren Fortune, Paul Gagne, Andrea Davis Pinkney, Billy DiMichele, and 
the entire Scholastic sales force. 

A note about the songs: “The Raven” by Edgar Allan Poe was first 
published in 1845. “Ah! Sun-flower” by William Blake appeared in his 
Songs of Experience in 1794. “The Goose and the Common” was written by 
an unknown author in the seven-teenth or eighteenth century. “Ladybug, 
Ladybug” is a District 12 variation of a centuries-old nursery rhyme. I 
wrote both “Wiress’s Arena Song” and “The Harvest Song” for this story. 
“The Happy Birthday Song” and “Gem of Panem” first appeared in the 
novel The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes; James Newton Howard wrote 
the music to the latter for the screen. “The Hanging Tree” lyrics originated 


in the book Mockingjay, and the film version was composed by Jeremiah 
Caleb Fraites & Wesley Keith Schultz of the Lumineers and arranged by 
James Newton Howard. “Nothing You Can Take From Me,” “The Ballad of 
Lucy Gray Baird,” and “The Old Therebefore” all first appeared in the 
Ballad novel and Dave Cobb wrote their music for the film. Much gratitude 
goes to all these artists, from long ago to the present, whose brilliant, 
whimsical, and soulful works have enriched Panem. 

Managing this fictional world is a complex and ever-growing job. To 
Rosemary; my entertainment agent, Jason Dravis; legal experts Eleanor 
Lackman, Diane Golden, and Sarah Lerner; and my daughter, Izzy, who 
keeps the District 12 office in shape — thanks for the super job you do 
making sure everything runs smoothly. 

I wish my dad was here to see that our discussions on David Hume 
inspired Sunrise on the Reaping, and I hope my English-major mom, who 
shares her love of literature with me, enjoys this story. Much love always to 
you both. 

To all my wonderful readers, thanks for once again returning to 
Panem and investing in these characters and their struggles, even when you 
know the eventual outcome. The snow may fall, but the sun also rises. 


ABOUT THE AUTHOR 


Suzanne Collins is the internationally bestselling author of the Hunger 
Games series, which also includes the novels The Hunger Games, Catching 
Fire, Mockingjay, and The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes. Together, the 
books have sold over 100 million copies and were the basis for five popular 
films. Her other books include the acclaimed Underland Chronicles series, 
which begins with Gregor the Overlander, and the picture book Year of the 
Jungle, illustrated by James Proimos. To date, her books have been 
published in fifty-three languages around the world. 


THE PHENOMENAL #1 
BESTSELLING SERIES FROM 


SUZANNE COLLINS 


“I couldn’t stop reading.” 
—Stephen King 


“Collins writes with raw power.’ 
—Time Magazine 


MOCKINGJAY 
Y 


“Riveting...Clear your schedule 
before you start.” —Peopie 


SUZANNE COLLINS THE BALLAD or 
SONGBIRDS 
OSNAKES 