“THE MENTOR” 


< 


Coriolanus released the fistful of cabbage into the pot of boiling 
water and swore that one day it would never pass his lips again. But 
this was not that day. He needed to eat a large bowl of the anemic 
stuff, and drink every drop of broth, to prevent his stomach from 
growling during the reaping ceremony. It was one of a long list of 
precautions he took to mask the fact that his family, despite residing 
in the penthouse of the Capitol’s most opulent apartment building, 
was as poor as district scum. That at eighteen, the heir to the once- 
great house of Snow had nothing to live on but his wits. 

His shirt for the reaping was worrying him. He had an acceptable 
pair of dark dress pants bought on the black market last year, but the 
shirt was what people looked at. Fortunately, the Academy provided 
the uniforms it required for daily use. For today’s ceremony, however, 
students were instructed to be dressed fashionably but with the 
solemnity the occasion dictated. Tigris had said to trust her, and he 
did. Only his cousin’s cleverness with a needle had saved him so far. 


Still, he couldn’t expect miracles. 


The shirt they’d dug from the back of the wardrobe — his father’s, 
from better days — was stained and yellowed with age, half the 
buttons missing, a cigarette burn on one cuff. Too damaged to sell in 
even the worst of times, and this was to be his reaping shirt? This 
morning he had gone to her room at daybreak, only to find both his 
cousin and the shirt missing. Not a good sign. Had Tigris given up on 
the old thing and braved the black market in some last-ditch effort to 
find him proper clothing? And what on earth would she possess worth 
trading for it? Only one thing — herself — and the house of Snow had 
not yet fallen that far. Or was it falling now as he salted the cabbage? 

He thought of people putting a price on her. With her long, 
pointed nose and skinny body, Tigris was no great beauty, but she had 
a sweetness, a vulnerability that invited abuse. She would find takers, 
if she had a mind to. The idea made him feel sick and helpless and, 
consequently, disgusted with himself. 

From deep in the apartment he heard the recording of the Capitol 
anthem, “Gem of Panem,” kick on. His grandmother’s tremulous 


soprano voice joined in, bouncing off the walls. 


Gem of Panem, 


Mighty city, 


Through the ages, you shine anew. 


As always, she was painfully off-key and slightly behind tempo. 
The first year of the war, she’d played the recording on national 


holidays for five-year-old Coriolanus and eight-year-old Tigris in order 


to build their sense of patriotism. The daily recital hadn’t begun until 
that black day when the district rebels had surrounded the Capitol, 
cutting it off from supplies for the remaining two years of the war. 
“Remember, children,” she’d say, “we are but besieged — we have not 
surrendered!” Then she would warble the anthem out of the 
penthouse window as the bombs rained down. Her small act of 


defiance. 


We humbly kneel 


To your ideal, 


And the notes she could never quite hit... 


And pledge our love to you! 


Coriolanus winced a little. For a decade now, though the rebels 
had been silent, his grandmother had not. There were still two verses 


to go. 


Gem of Panem, 
Heart of justice, 


Wisdom crowns your marble brow. 


He wondered if more furniture might absorb some of the sound, 
but the question was academic. At present, their penthouse apartment 
was a microcosm of the Capitol itself, bearing the scars of the 
relentless rebel attacks. The twenty-foot-high walls were veined with 
cracks, the molded ceiling was dotted with holes from missing chunks 
of plaster, and ugly black strips of electrical tape held in place the 
broken glass of the arched windows that looked out over the city. 
Throughout the war and the decade that followed, the family had 
been forced to sell or trade many of its possessions, so that some 
rooms were entirely empty and closed off and the others sparsely 
furnished at best. Even worse, during the bitter cold of the siege’s 
final winter, several elegant, carved wooden pieces and innumerable 
volumes of books had been sacrificed to the fireplace to keep the 
family from freezing to death. Watching the bright pages of his 
picture books — the very ones he’d pored over with his mother — 
reduced to ashes had never failed to bring him to tears. But better off 
sad than dead. 

Having been in his friends’ apartments, Coriolanus knew that most 
families had begun to repair their homes, but the Snows could not 
even afford a few yards of linen for a new shirt. He thought of his 
classmates, riffling through their closets or slipping into their newly 
tailored suits, and wondered just how long he could keep up 


appearances. 


You give us light. 
You reunite. 


To you we make our vow. 


If Tigris’s revamped shirt was unwearable, what was he to do? 
Fake the flu and call in sick? Spineless. Soldier through in his uniform 


shirt? Disrespectful. Squeeze into the red button-down that he had 


outgrown two years ago? Poor. Acceptable option? None of the above. 
Perhaps Tigris had gone to ask help from her employer, Fabricia 
Whatnot, a woman as ridiculous as her name but with a certain talent 
for derivative fashion. Whether the trend was feathers or leathers, 
plastics or plush, she could find a way to incorporate it at a 
reasonable rate. Not much of a student, Tigris had forgone university 
when she’d graduated from the Academy to pursue her dream of 
becoming a designer. She was supposed to be an apprentice, although 
Fabricia used her more as slave labor, requiring her to give foot 
massages and clean clumps of her long magenta hair from the drains. 
But Tigris never complained and would hear no criticism of her boss, 


so pleased and grateful was she to have a position in fashion. 


Gem of Panem, 
Seat of power, 


Strength in peacetime, shield in strife. 


Coriolanus opened the refrigerator, hoping for something to liven 
up the cabbage soup. The sole occupant was a metal saucepan. When 
he removed the lid, a mush of congealed, shredded potatoes stared 
back at him. Had his grandmother finally made good her threat of 
learning to cook? Was the stuff even edible? He replaced the lid until 
he had more information to work with. What a luxury it would be to 
toss it in the trash without a second thought. What a luxury trash 
would be. He remembered, or thought he did, being very small and 


watching garbage trucks operated by Avoxes — tongueless workers 


made the best workers, or so his grandmother said — humming down 
the streets, emptying large bags of discarded food, containers, worn 
household items. Then came the time when nothing was disposable, 
no calorie unwanted, and no item unable to be traded, or burned for 
heat, or tucked against a wall for insulation. Everyone had learned to 
despise waste. It was creeping back into fashion, though. A sign of 


prosperity, like a decent shirt. 


Protect our land 


With armored hand, 


The shirt. The shirt. His mind could fixate on a problem like 
that — anything, really— and not let go. As if controlling one 
element of his world would keep him from ruin. It was a bad habit 
that blinded him to other things that could harm him. A tendency 
toward obsession was hardwired into his brain and would likely be his 
undoing if he couldn’t learn to outsmart it. 


His grandmother’s voice squeaked out the final crescendo. 


Our Capitol, our life! 


Crazy old woman, still clinging to the prewar days. He loved her, 
but she’d lost touch with reality years ago. Every meal, she’d rattle on 
about the Snows’ legendary grandeur, even when their fare consisted 
of watery bean soup and stale crackers. And to hear her tell it, it was 
a given that his future would be glorious. “When Coriolanus is president...” she often began. “When Coriolanus is president.. .” 
everything from the rickety Capitol air force to the exorbitant price of 
pork chops would be magically corrected. Thank goodness the broken 
elevator and her arthritic knees prevented her from going out much, 
and her infrequent visitors were as fossilized as she. 

The cabbage began to boil, filling the kitchen with the smell of 
poverty. Coriolanus jabbed at it with a wooden spoon. Still no Tigris. 
Soon it would be too late to call and make an excuse. Everyone would 
have assembled at the Academy’s Heavensbee Hall. There would be 
anger to deal with as well as disappointment from his 
communications professor, Satyria Click, who had campaigned for 
him to receive one of the twenty-four coveted mentorships in the 
Hunger Games. Besides being Satyria’s favorite, he was her teaching 
aide, and doubtless she would need him for something today. She 
could be unpredictable, especially when she’d been drinking, and that 
was a given on the day of the reaping. He’d better call and warn her, 
say he couldn’t stop vomiting or something but would do his best to 
recover. He steeled himself and picked up the phone to plead dire 
illness when another thought hit him: If he failed to show, would she 
allow them to replace him as a mentor? And if she did, would that 
weaken his chance for one of the Academy prizes presented at 
graduation? Without such a prize, he had no way to afford to go to 
university, which meant no career, which meant no future, not for 
him, and who knew what would happen to the family, and — 

The front door, warped and complaining, scraped open. 


“Coryo!” Tigris cried out, and he slammed the phone down. The 


nickname she’d given him when he was a newborn had stuck. He flew 
out of the kitchen, almost knocking her over, but she was too excited 
to reproach him. “I did it! I did it! Well, I did something.” Her feet did 
a rapid little run in place as she held up a hanger draped in an old 
dress bag. “Look, look, look!” 

Coriolanus unzipped the bag and stripped it from the shirt. 

It was gorgeous. No, even better, it was classy. The thick linen was 
neither the original white nor the yellow of age, but a delicious 
cream. The cuffs and collar had been replaced with black velvet, and 
the buttons were gold and ebony cubes. Tesserae. Each had two tiny 
holes drilled through it for the thread. 

“You're brilliant,” he said earnestly. “And the best cousin ever.” 
Careful to hold the shirt out of harm’s way, he hugged her with his 
free arm. “Snow lands on top!” 

“Snow lands on top!” Tigris crowed. It was the saying that had 
gotten them through the war, when it was a constant struggle not to 
be ground into the earth. 

“Tell me everything,” he said, knowing she would want to. She so 
loved to talk clothes. 

Tigris threw up her hands and gave a breathy laugh. “Where to 
begin?” 

She began with the bleach. Tigris had suggested the white curtains 
in Fabricia’s bedroom looked dingy and, while soaking them in bleach 
water, had slipped in the shirt. It had responded beautifully, but no 


amount of soaking could entirely erase the stains. So she’d boiled the 


shirt with dead marigolds she’d found in the bin outside Fabricia’s 
neighbor’s, and the blossoms had dyed the linen just enough to 
conceal the stains. The velvet for the cuffs was from a large 
drawstring pouch that had held some now-meaningless plaque of their 
grandfather’s. The tesserae she had pried from the interior of a 
cabinet in the maid’s bathroom. Shed gotten the building 
maintenance man to drill the holes in exchange for mending his 
coveralls. 

“Was that this morning?” he asked. 

“Oh, no, yesterday. Sunday. This morning, I — Did you find my 
potatoes?” He followed her into the kitchen, where she opened the 
refrigerator and pulled out the pan. “I was up until all hours making 
starch from them. Then I ran down to the Dolittles’ so I could have a 
proper iron. Saved these for the soup!” Tigris upended the mess into 
the boiling cabbage and stirred it around. 

He noticed the lilac circles under her golden brown eyes and 
couldn’t help feeling a pang of guilt. “When was the last time you 
slept?” he asked. 

“Oh, I’m fine. I ate the potato skins. They say that’s where the 
vitamins are anyway. And today’s the reaping, so it’s practically a 
holiday!” she said cheerfully. 

“Not at Fabricia’s,” he said. Not anywhere, really. Reaping day 
was terrible in the districts, but not much of a celebration in the 
Capitol either. Like him, most people took no pleasure in 


remembering the war. Tigris would spend the day waiting hand and 


foot on her employer and her motley crew of guests while they 
exchanged morose tales of the deprivation they’d experienced during 
the siege and drank themselves senseless. Tomorrow, nursing them 
through hangovers, would be worse. 

“Stop worrying. Here, you better hurry up and eat!” Tigris ladled 
some soup into a bowl and set it on the table. 

Coriolanus glanced at the clock, gulped down the soup without 
caring that it burned his mouth, and ran to his room with the shirt. He 
had already showered and shaved, and his fair skin was, thankfully, 
blemish-free today. The school-issued underwear and black socks 
were fine. He pulled on the dress pants, which were more than 
acceptable, and crammed his feet into a pair of laced leather boots. 
They were too small, but he could bear it. Then he pulled the shirt on 
gingerly, tucked in the tails, and turned to the mirror. He was not as 
tall as he should have been. As for so many of his generation, a poor 
diet had likely compromised his growth. But he was athletically trim, 
with excellent posture, and the shirt emphasized the finer points of his 
physique. Not since he was little, when his grandmother would parade 
him through the streets in a purple velvet suit, had he looked so regal. 
He smoothed back his blond curls as he mockingly whispered to his 
image, “Coriolanus Snow, future president of Panem, I salute you.” 

For Tigris’s sake, he made a grand entrance into the living room, 
extending his arms and turning in a full circle to show off the shirt. 

She squealed in delight and applauded. “You look amazing! So 


handsome and fashionable! Come see, Grandma’am!” It was another 


nickname coined by little Tigris, who’d found “Grandma,” and 
certainly “Nana,” insufficient for someone so imperial. 

Their grandmother appeared, a fresh-cut red rose cupped lovingly 
in her tremorous hands. She wore a long, black, flowing tunic, the 
kind so popular before the war and so outdated as to be laughable 
now, and a pair of embroidered slippers with curled toes that had 
once been part of a costume. Strands of her thin, white hair poked 
from the bottom of a rusty velvet turban. This was the tail end of a 
once-lavish wardrobe — her few decent items were saved for 
company or the rare foray into the city. 

“Here, here, boy. Put this on. Fresh from my roof garden,” she 
ordered. 

He reached for the rose, but a thorn pierced his palm in the shaky 
exchange. Blood welled from the wound, and he held his hand out to 
keep it from staining his precious shirt. His grandmother seemed 
perplexed. 

“T only wanted you to look elegant,” she told him. 

“Of course, you did, Grandma’am,” said Tigris. “And so he shall.” 

As she led Coriolanus into the kitchen, he reminded himself that 
self-control was an essential skill, and he should be grateful his 
grandmother provided daily opportunities to practice it. 

“Puncture wounds never bleed long,” Tigris promised him as she 
quickly cleaned and bandaged his hand. She snipped away at the rose, 
preserving a bit of greenery, and pinned it to his shirt. “It does look 


elegant. You know what her roses mean to her. Thank her.” 


So he did. He thanked them both and sped out the door, down the 
twelve ornate flights of stairs, through the lobby, and out into the 
Capitol. 

His front door opened onto the Corso, an avenue so wide that 
eight chariots had comfortably ridden side by side on it in the old 
days when the Capitol had put on displays of military pomp for the 
crowds. Coriolanus could remember hanging out the apartment 
windows as a young child, party guests bragging that they had front- 
row seats to the parades. Then the bombers arrived, and for a long 
time his block was impassable. Now, though the streets were finally 
clear, rubble still lay in piles on the sidewalks, and whole buildings 
were as gutted as the day they’d been struck. Ten years after the 
victory, and he was dodging between chunks of marble and granite as 
he wove his way to the Academy. Sometimes Coriolanus wondered if 
the debris had been left there to remind the citizens of what they had 
endured. People had short memories. They needed to navigate the 
rubble, peel off the grubby ration coupons, and witness the Hunger 
Games to keep the war fresh in their minds. Forgetting could lead to 
complacency, and then they’d all be back at square one. 

As he turned onto Scholars Road, he tried to measure his pace. He 
wanted to arrive on time, but cool and composed, not a sweaty mess. 
This reaping day, like most, was shaping up to be a scorcher. But what 
else could you expect on July 4th? He felt grateful for the perfume of 
his grandmother’s rose, as his warming shirt was giving off a faint 


scent of potatoes and dead marigolds. 


As the finest secondary school in the Capitol, the Academy 
educated the offspring of the prominent, wealthy, and influential. 
With over four hundred students in each class, it had been possible for 
Tigris and Coriolanus, given their family’s long history at the school, 
to gain acceptance without much difficulty. Unlike the University, it 
was tuition-free and provided lunch and school supplies along with 
uniforms. Anyone who was anyone attended the Academy, and 
Coriolanus would need those connections as a foundation for his 
future. 

The grand staircase up to the Academy could hold the entire 
student body, so it easily accommodated the stream of officials, 
professors, and students headed for the reaping day festivities. 
Coriolanus climbed it slowly, attempting a casual dignity in case he 
caught anyone’s eye. People knew him — or at least they had known 
his parents and grandparents — and there was a certain standard 
expected of a Snow. This year, beginning this very day, he was hoping 
to achieve personal recognition as well. Mentoring in the Hunger 
Games was his final project before graduating from the Academy in 
midsummer. If he gave an impressive performance as a mentor, with 
his outstanding academic record, Coriolanus should be awarded a 
monetary prize substantial enough to cover his tuition at the 
University. 

There would be twenty-four tributes, one boy and one girl from 
each of the twelve defeated districts, drawn by lottery to be thrown 


into an arena to fight to the death in the Hunger Games. It was all laid 


out in the Treaty of Treason that had ended the Dark Days of the 
districts’ rebellion, one of the many punishments borne by the rebels. 
As in the past, the tributes would be dumped into the Capitol Arena, a 
now-dilapidated amphitheater that had been used for sports and 
entertainment events before the war, along with some weapons to 
murder one another. Viewing was encouraged in the Capitol, but a lot 
of people avoided it. How to make it more engaging was the 
challenge. 

With this in mind, for the first time the tributes were to be 
assigned mentors. Twenty-four of the Academy’s best and brightest 
seniors had been tapped for the job. The specifics of what this entailed 
were still being worked out. There was talk of preparing each tribute 
for a personal interview, maybe some grooming for the cameras. 
Everyone agreed that if the Hunger Games were to continue, they 
needed to evolve into a more meaningful experience, and the pairing 
of the Capitol youth with the district tributes had people intrigued. 

Coriolanus made his way through an entry draped in black 
banners, down a vaulted passage, and into cavernous Heavensbee 
Hall, where they would watch the broadcast of the reaping ceremony. 
He was by no means late, but the hall was already humming with 
faculty and students and a number of Games officials who were not 
required for the opening day’s broadcast. 

Avoxes wove through the crowd with trays of posca, a concoction 
of watery wine laced with honey and herbs. It was an intoxicating 


version of the sour stuff that had sustained the Capitol through the 


war, supposedly fending off illness. Coriolanus took a goblet and 
swished a little of the posca around his mouth, hopefully rinsing away 
any trace of cabbage breath. But he only allowed himself one 
swallow. It was stronger than most people thought, and in previous 
years he had seen upperclassmen make complete fools of themselves 
by imbibing too deeply. 

The world still thought Coriolanus rich, but his only real currency 
was charm, which he spread liberally as he made his way through the 
crowd. Faces lit up as he gave friendly hellos to students and teachers 
alike, asking about family members, dropping compliments here and 
there. 

“Your lecture on district retaliation haunts me.” 

“Love the bangs!” 

“How did your mother’s back surgery go? Well, tell her she’s my 
hero.” 

He traveled past the hundreds of cushioned chairs set up for the 
occasion and onto the dais, where Satyria was regaling a mix of 
Academy professors and Games officials with some wild story. 
Although he only caught the last line — “Well, I said, ‘I’m sorry about 
your wig, but you were the one who insisted on bringing a 
monkey!” — he dutifully joined in the laughter that followed. 

“Oh, Coriolanus,” Satyria drawled as she waved him over. “Here’s 
my star pupil.” He gave her the expected kiss on the cheek and 
registered that she was several glasses of posca ahead of him. Really, 


she needed to get her drinking under control, although the same thing 


could be said for half the adults he knew. Self-medication was a 
citywide epidemic. Still, she was amusing and not overly uptight, one 
of the few professors who allowed students to call them by their first 
names. She drew back a bit and surveyed him. “Beautiful shirt. Where 
did you get such a thing?” 

He looked at the shirt as if surprised by its existence and gave the 
shrug of a young man of limitless options. 

“The Snows have deep closets,” he said airily. “I was trying for 
respectful yet celebratory.” 

“And so it is. What are these cunning buttons?” Satyria asked, 
fingering one of the cubes on his cuff. “Tesserae?” 

“Are they? Well, that explains why they remind me of the maid’s 
bathroom,” Coriolanus responded, drawing a chuckle from her 
friends. This was the impression he fought to sustain. A reminder that 
he was the rare person who had a maid’s bathroom — let alone one 
tiled with tesserae — tempered with a self-deprecating joke about his 
shirt. 

He nodded at Satyria. “Lovely gown. It’s new, isn’t it?” He could 
tell at a glance that it was the same dress she always wore to the 
reaping ceremony, refurbished with tufts of black feathers. But she 
had validated his shirt, and he needed to return the favor. 

“I had it done especially for today,” she said, embracing the 
question. “Tenth anniversary and all that.” 

“Elegant,” he said. All in all, they were not a bad team. 


His pleasure drained as he spotted the gymnasium mistress, 


Professor Agrippina Sickle, using her muscular shoulders to maneuver 
her way through the crowd. Behind her was her aide, Sejanus Plinth, 
who was carrying the ornamental shield Professor Sickle insisted on 
holding for the group photo each year. It had been awarded to her at 
the end of the war for successfully overseeing Academy safety drills 
during the bombings. 

It was not the shield that caught Coriolanus’s attention but 
Sejanus’s outfit, a soft charcoal gray suit with a blinding white shirt 
offset by a paisley tie, cut to add flow to his tall, angular frame. The 
ensemble was stylish, brand-new, and smelling of money. War 
profiteering, to be exact. Sejanus’s father was a District 2 
manufacturer who had sided with the president. He had made such a 
fortune off munitions that he’d been able to buy his family’s way into 
a life in the Capitol. The Plinths now enjoyed privileges that the 
oldest, most powerful families had earned over generations. It was 
unprecedented that Sejanus, a district-born boy, was a student at the 
Academy, but his father’s lavish donation had allowed for much of the 
school’s postwar reconstruction. A Capitol-born citizen would have 
expected a building to be renamed for them. Sejanus’s father had only 
requested an education for his son. 

For Coriolanus, the Plinths and their kind were a threat to all he 
held dear. The newly rich climbers in the Capitol were chipping away 
at the old order simply by virtue of their presence. It was particularly 
vexing because the bulk of the Snow family fortune had also been 


invested in munitions — but in District 13. Their sprawling complex, 


blocks and blocks of factories and research facilities, had been 
bombed to dust. District 13 had been nuked, and the entire area still 
emitted unlivable levels of radiation. The center of the Capitol’s 
military manufacturing had shifted to District 2 and fallen right into 
the Plinths’ laps. When news of District 13’s demise had reached the 
Capitol, Coriolanus’s grandmother had publicly brushed it off, saying 
it was fortunate that they had plenty of other assets. But they didn’t. 

Sejanus had arrived on the school playground ten years ago, a shy, 
sensitive boy cautiously surveying the other children with a pair of 
soulful brown eyes much too large for his strained face. When word 
had gotten out that he’d come from the districts, Coriolanus’s first 
impulse had been to join his classmates’ campaign to make the new 
kid’s life a living hell. On further reflection, he’d ignored him. If the 
other Capitol children took this to mean that baiting the district brat 
was beneath him, Sejanus took it as decency. Neither take was quite 
accurate, but both reinforced the image of Coriolanus as a class act. 

A woman of formidable stature, Professor Sickle cruised into 
Satyria’s circle, scattering her inferiors to the four winds. “Good 
morning, Professor Click.” 

“Oh, Agrippina, good. You remembered your shield,” said Satyria, 
accepting a firm handshake. “It worries me that the young people will 
forget the real meaning of the day. And, Sejanus. How smart you 
look.” 

Sejanus attempted a bow, sending a wayward lock of hair into his 


eyes. The cumbersome shield caught him in the chest. 


“Too smart,” said Professor Sickle. “I told him if I wanted a 
peacock, I’d call the pet store. They should all be in their uniforms.” 
She eyed Coriolanus. “That’s not terrible. Your father’s old mess dress 
shirt?” 

Was it? Coriolanus had no idea. A vague memory of his father in a 
dashing evening suit dripping in medals came to him. He decided to 
play out the hand. “Thank you for noticing, Professor. I had it redone 
so as not to suggest I’d seen combat myself. But I wanted him here 
with me today.” 

“Very fitting,” said Professor Sickle. Then she directed her 
attention to Satyria and her views on the latest deployment of 
Peacekeepers, the nation’s soldiers, to District 12, where the coal 
miners were failing to produce their quotas. 

With their teachers engaged, Coriolanus nodded at the shield. 
“Getting a workout this morning?” 

Sejanus gave a wry smile. “Always an honor to be of service.” 

“That’s a fine polish job,” Coriolanus replied. Sejanus tensed at the 
implication that he was, what, a suck-up? A lackey? Coriolanus let it 
build a moment before he diffused it. “I should know. I do all Satyria’s 
wine goblets.” 

Sejanus relaxed at that. “Really?” 

“No, not really. But only because she hasn’t thought of it,” said 
Coriolanus, seesawing between disdain and camaraderie. 

“Professor Sickle thinks of everything. She doesn’t hesitate to call 


me, day or night.” Sejanus looked as if he might continue, then just 


sighed. “And, of course, now that I’m graduating, we’re moving closer 
to the school. Perfect timing, as usual.” 

Coriolanus suddenly felt wary. “Whereabouts?” 

“Somewhere on the Corso. A lot of those grand places will be 
going on the market soon. Owners not being able to afford the taxes, 
or some such, my father said.” The shield scraped the floor, and 
Sejanus hefted it up. 

“They don’t tax properties in the Capitol. Only in the districts,” 
said Coriolanus. 

“It's a new law,” Sejanus told him. “To get more money for 
rebuilding the city.” 

Coriolanus tried to tamp down the panic rising inside him. A new 
law. Instating a tax on his apartment. For how much? As it was, they 
barely eked out a living on Tigris’s pittance, the tiny military pension 
his grandmother received for her husband’s service to Panem, and his 
own dependent benefits as the child of a slain war hero, which would 
cease on graduation. If they couldn’t pay the taxes, would they lose 
the apartment? It was all they had. Selling the place would be of no 
help; he knew his grandmother had borrowed every cent on it she 
could. If they sold, there would be next to nothing left. They would 
have to move to some obscure neighborhood and join the grimy ranks 
of everyday citizens, without status, without influence, without 
dignity. The disgrace would kill his grandmother. It would be kinder 
to toss her out the window of the penthouse. At least that would be 


quick. 


“You all right?” Sejanus peered at him, puzzled. “You just went 
white as a sheet.” 

Coriolanus regained his composure. “I think it’s the posca. Turns 
my stomach.” 

“Yeah,” Sejanus agreed. “Ma was always forcing it down me 
during the war.” 

Ma? Was Coriolanus’s place about to be usurped by someone who 
referred to his mother as “Ma”? The cabbage and posca threatened to 
make a reappearance. He took a deep breath and forced his stomach 
to hang on to it, resenting Sejanus more than he had since the well- 
fed district boy with the cloddish accent first wandered up to him, 
clutching a bag of gumdrops. 

Coriolanus heard a bell ringing and saw his fellow students 
converging at the front of the dais. 

“T guess it’s time to assign us tributes,” Sejanus said glumly. 

Coriolanus followed him to where a special section of chairs, six 
rows by four, had been set up for the mentors. He tried to push the 
apartment crisis out of his head, to focus on the crucial task at hand. 
More than ever, it was essential that he excel, and to excel, he must 
be assigned a competitive tribute. 

Dean Casca Highbottom, the man credited with the creation of the 
Hunger Games, was overseeing the mentor program personally. He 
presented himself to the students with all the verve of a sleepwalker, 
dreamy-eyed and, as usual, doped up on morphling. His once-fine 


physique was shrunken and draped with sagging skin. The close- 


clipped precision of a recent haircut and crisp suit only threw his 
deterioration into relief. Due to his fame as the Games’ inventor, he 
still had a tenuous hold on his position, but there were rumors that 
the Academy Board was losing patience. 

“Ho there,” he slurred, waving a crumpled piece of paper over his 
head. “Reading the things off now.” The students hushed, trying hard 
to hear him above the din of the hall. “Read you a name, then you 
who gets that one. Right? So, fine. District One, boy, goes to...” 
Dean Highbottom squinted at the paper, trying hard to focus. 
“Glasses,” he mumbled. “Forgot them.” Everyone stared at his glasses, 
already perched on his nose, and waited while his fingers found them. 
“Ah, here we go. Livia Cardew.” 

Livia’s pointed little face broke into a grin and she punched the air 
in victory, shouting “Yes!” in her shrill voice. She had always been 
prone to gloating. As if the plum assignment was solely a reflection on 
her, and not on her mother running the largest bank in the Capitol. 

Coriolanus felt increasing desperation as Dean Highbottom 
stumbled through the list, assigning each district’s boy and girl a 
mentor. After ten years, a pattern had emerged. The better-fed, more 
Capitol-friendly districts of 1 and 2 produced more victors, with the 
fishing and farming tributes from 4 and 11 also being contenders. 
Coriolanus had hoped for either a 1 or a 2, but neither was assigned 
to him, which was made more insulting when Sejanus scored the 
District 2 boy. District 4 passed without mention of his name, and his 


last real chance for a victor — the District 11 boy — was assigned to 


Clemensia Dovecote, daughter of the energies secretary. Unlike Livia, 
Clemensia received news of her good fortune with tact, pushing her 
sheet of raven hair over her shoulder as she studiously made note of 
her tribute in her binder. 

Something was amiss when a Snow, who also happened to be one 
of the Academy’s high-honor students, had gone unrecognized. 
Coriolanus was beginning to think they had forgotten him — perhaps 
they were giving him some special position? — when, to his horror, 
he heard Dean Highbottom mumble, “And last but least, District 


Twelve girl . . . she belongs to Coriolanus Snow.” 


> 


The District 12 girl? Could there be a bigger slap in the face? 
District 12, the smallest district, the joke district, with its stunted, 
joint-swollen kids that always died in the first five minutes, and not 
only that . . . but the girl? Not that a girl couldn’t win, but in his mind 
the Hunger Games were largely about brute force, and the girls were 
naturally smaller than the boys and therefore at a disadvantage. 
Coriolanus had never been a particular favorite of Dean Highbottom, 
whom he jokingly called High-as-a-Kite-Bottom among his friends, but 
he had not expected such a public humiliation. Had the nickname 
gotten back to him? Or was this just an acknowledgment that, in the 
new world order, the Snows were fading into insignificance? 

He could feel the blood burning his cheeks as he tried to remain 
composed. Most of the other students had risen and were chatting 
among themselves. He must join them, pretend this was of no 
consequence, but he seemed incapable of movement. The most he 
could manage was to turn his head to the right, where Sejanus still sat 


beside him. Coriolanus opened his mouth to congratulate him but 


stopped at the barely concealed misery on the other boy’s face. 

“What is it?” he asked. “Aren’t you happy? District Two, the 
boy — that’s the pick of the litter.” 

“You forget. Pm part of that litter,” said Sejanus hoarsely. 

Coriolanus let that sink in. So ten years in the Capitol and the 
privileged life it provided had been wasted on Sejanus. He still 
thought of himself as a district citizen. Sentimental nonsense. 

Sejanus’s forehead creased in consternation. “I’m sure my father 
requested it. He’s always trying to get my mind right.” 

No doubt, thought Coriolanus. Old Strabo Plinth’s deep pockets 
and influence were respected if his lineage was not. And while the 
mentorships were supposedly based on merit, strings clearly had been 
pulled. 

The audience had settled into seats now. At the back of the dais, 
curtains parted to reveal a floor-to-ceiling screen. The reaping aired 
live from each district, moving from the east coast to the west, and 
was broadcast around the country. That meant District 12 would kick 
off the day. Everyone rose as the seal of Panem filled the screen, 


accompanied by the Capitol anthem. 


Gem of Panem, 
Mighty city, 


Through the ages, you shine anew. 


Some of the students fumbled for the words, but Coriolanus, who 


had heard his grandmother butcher it daily for years, sang all three 


verses in a forceful voice, garnering a few nods of approval. It was 
pathetic, but he needed every drop of approval he could get. 

The seal dissolved to show President Ravinstill, his hair streaked 
with silver, dressed in his prewar military uniform as a reminder that 
he’d been controlling the districts long before the Dark Days of the 
rebellion. He recited a brief passage from the Treaty of Treason, 
which laid out the Hunger Games as a war reparation, young district 
lives taken for the young Capitol lives that had been lost. The price of 
the rebels’ treachery. 

The Gamemakers cut to the bleak square of District 12, where a 
temporary stage, now lined with Peacekeepers, had been erected 
before the Justice Building. Mayor Lipp, a squat, freckled man in a 
hopelessly outdated suit, stood between two burlap sacks. He dug his 
hand deeply in the bag on his left, pulled out a slip of paper, and 
barely glanced at it. 

“The District Twelve girl tribute is Lucy Gray Baird,” he said into a 
mic. The camera swept over the crowd of gray, hungry faces in gray, 
shapeless clothing, seeking the tribute. It zoomed in toward a 
disturbance, girls drawing back from the unfortunate chosen one. 

The audience gave a surprised murmur at the sight of her. 

Lucy Gray Baird stood upright in a dress made of a rainbow of 
ruffles, now raggedy but once fancy. Her dark, curly hair was pulled 
up and woven with limp wildflowers. Her colorful ensemble drew the 
eye, as to a tattered butterfly in a field of moths. She did not make 


straight for the stage but began to weave through the girls off to her 


right. 

It happened quickly. The dip of her hand into the ruffles at her 
hip, the wriggle of bright green transported from her pocket and 
deposited down the collar of a smirking redhead’s blouse, the rustle of 
her skirt as she moved on. Focus stayed on the victim, her smirk 
changing to an expression of horror, her shrieks as she fell to the 
ground, pawing at her clothes, the shouts of the mayor. And in the 
background, her assailant was still weaving, still gliding her way to 
the stage, not looking back even once. 

Heavensbee Hall came to life as people elbowed their neighbors. 

“Did you see that?” 

“What did she drop down her dress?” 

“A lizard?” 

“I saw a snake!” 

“Did she kill her?” 

Coriolanus scanned the crowd and felt a spark of hope. His long 
shot of a tribute, his throwaway, his insult had captured the Capitol’s 
attention. That was good, right? With his help, perhaps she could 
keep it, and he could turn disgrace into a respectable showing. One 
way or another, their fates were irrevocably linked. 

Up on the screen, Mayor Lipp flew down the steps of the stage, 
pushing his way through the assembled girls to reach the fallen one 
on the ground. “Mayfair? Mayfair?” he cried. “My daughter needs 
help!” A circle had opened up around her, but the few halfhearted 


attempts to help her were blocked by her thrashing limbs. The mayor 


broke into the clearing just as a small, iridescent green snake shot out 
of the folds of her dress and into the crowd, bringing screams and 
scrambles to avoid it. The departure of the snake calmed Mayfair, but 
her distress was immediately replaced by embarrassment. She looked 
straight into the camera as she realized all the citizens of Panem were 
watching. One hand tried to straighten a bow that had gone askew in 
her hair, the other moved to right her garments, filthy with the coal 
dust that coated everything and torn from her clawing. As her father 
helped her to her feet, it was apparent she had wet herself. He 
removed his jacket to wrap around her and handed her over to a 
Peacekeeper to lead away. He turned back to the stage and trained a 
murderous look on District 12’s newest tribute. 

As Coriolanus watched Lucy Gray Baird take the stage, he felt a 
stab of uneasiness. Could she be mentally unstable? There was 
something vaguely familiar but disturbing about her. The rows of 
raspberry pink, royal blue, and daffodil yellow ruffles . . . 

“She’s like a circus performer,” one of the girls remarked. The 
other mentors made sounds of agreement. 

That was it. Coriolanus reached back into his memory to the 
circuses of his early childhood. Jugglers and acrobats, clowns and 
dancing girls in puffy dresses twirling around while his brain grew 
giddy with spun sugar. His tribute’s choosing such festive attire for 
the darkest event of the year showed a strangeness beyond a simple 
lapse of judgment. 


The allotted time for District 12’s reaping had no doubt come and 


gone, but they still lacked a male tribute. Even so, when Mayor Lipp 
retook the stage, he ignored the bags of names, made a beeline for the 
girl tribute, and struck her in the face so powerfully that she was 
knocked to her knees. He had raised his hand to hit her again, when a 
couple of the Peacekeepers intervened, grabbing his arms and 
attempting to redirect him to the business at hand. When he resisted, 
they hauled him back into the Justice Building, bringing the whole 
proceeding to a standstill. 

Attention shifted to the girl on the stage. As the camera zoomed in 
on her, Coriolanus was not reassured about Lucy Gray Baird’s sanity. 
Where she’d gotten the makeup he had no idea, for it was only just 
becoming accessible again in the Capitol, but her eyes were shadowed 
blue and lined with black, her cheeks rouged, and her lips stained a 
somewhat greasy red. Here in the Capitol, it would have been bold. In 
District 12, it felt immoderate. She was impossible to look away from 
as she sat there running her hand over her skirt, compulsively 
smoothing the ruffles. Only when they were neatly arranged did she 
raise her hand to touch the mark on her cheek. Her lower lip trembled 
slightly and her eyes shone with tears that threatened to spill over. 

“Don’t cry,” Coriolanus whispered. He caught himself and looked 
around nervously to find that the other students were riveted. Their 
faces showed concern. She had won their sympathy, despite her 
oddness. They had no idea who she was or why she had attacked 
Mayfair, but who couldn’t see that the smirking thing was spiteful, 


and her father a brute who would flatten a girl he’d just sentenced to 


death? 

“T bet they rigged it,” Sejanus said quietly. “Her name wasn’t on 
that slip.” 

Just as the girl was about to lose her battle with the tears, a 
strange thing happened. From somewhere in the crowd, a voice began 
to sing. A young voice, which might belong to either a boy or a girl, 


but of such a pitch that it carried across the silent square. 


You can’t take my past. 


You can’t take my history. 


A puff of wind blew across the stage, and the girl slowly lifted her 
head. Somewhere else in the crowd, a deeper, distinctly male voice 


sang out. 


You could take my pa, 


But his name’s a mystery. 


The shadow of a smile played on Lucy Gray Baird’s lips. She 
suddenly pushed herself to her feet, strode to the center of the stage, 


grabbed the mic, and let loose. 


Nothing you can take from me was ever worth keeping. 


Her free hand dug into the ruffles of her skirt, swishing it side to 
side, and all of it began to make sense — the costume, the makeup, 
her hair. Whoever she was, she had been dressed for a performance 


all along. She had a fine voice, bright and clear on the high notes, 


husky and rich on the low, and she moved with assurance. 


You can’t take my charm. 
You can’t take my humor. 
You can’t take my wealth, 
Cause it’s just a rumor. 


Nothing you can take from me was ever worth keeping. 


Singing transformed her, and Coriolanus no longer found her so 
disconcerting. There was something exciting, even attractive, about 
her. The camera drank her in as she crossed to the front of the stage 


and leaned out over the audience, sweet and insolent. 


Thinking you’re so fine. 

Thinking you can have mine. 

Thinking you’re in control. 

Thinking you'll change me, maybe rearrange me. 
Think again, if that’s your goal, 


’Cause... 


And then she was off, sashaying around the stage, right past the 
Peacekeepers, some of whom were having trouble suppressing smiles. 


None of them moved to stop her. 


You can’t take my sass. 
You can’t take my talking. 


You can kiss my ass 


And then keep on walking. 


Nothing you can take from me was ever worth keeping. 


The doors to the Justice Building banged open and the 
Peacekeepers who had taken the mayor off burst back onto the stage. 
The girl was facing front, but you could see her register their arrival. 


She headed to the far end of the stage for her big finish. 


No, sir, 
Nothing you can take from me is worth dirt. 
Take it, ’cause ld give it free. It won’t hurt. 


Nothing you can take from me was ever worth keeping! 


She managed to blow a kiss before they were on her. “My friends 
call me Lucy Gray — I hope you will, too!” she called out. One of the 
Peacekeepers wrested the mic from her hand as another picked her up 
and carried her back to the middle of the stage. She waved as if to 
raucous applause, not dead silence. 

For a few moments, they were silent in Heavensbee Hall as well. 
Coriolanus wondered if, like him, they were hoping she’d keep 
singing. Then everybody broke out talking, first about the girl, then 
about who’d been lucky enough to get her. The other students were 
craning their heads around, some giving him a thumbs-up, some 
shooting resentful looks. He gave a bemused shake of his head, but 
inside he was glowing. Snow lands on top. 


Peacekeepers brought the mayor back out and planted themselves 


on either side of him to avoid further conflict. Lucy Gray ignored his 
return, having seemingly regained her poise by performing. The 
mayor glowered at the camera as he slapped his hand into the second 
bag and pulled several slips out. A few fluttered down to the stage and 
he read the remaining paper. “The District Twelve boy tribute is 
Jessup Diggs.” 

The kids in the square stirred and made way for Jessup, a boy with 
a fringe of black hair plastered down on his prominent forehead. As 
District 12 tributes went, he was a fine specimen, bigger than average 
and strong-looking. His griminess suggested he was already employed 
in the mines. A halfhearted attempt at washing had revealed a 
relatively clean oval in the middle of his face, but it was ringed with 
black, and coal dust caked his nails. Awkwardly, he ascended the 
stairs to take his place. As he neared the mayor, Lucy Gray stepped 
forward and extended her hand. The boy hesitated, then reached out 
and shook. Lucy Gray crossed in front of him, switched her right hand 
for her left, and they were standing side by side, holding hands, when 
she made a deep curtsy, pulling the boy into a bow. A smattering of 
applause and a lone whoop came from the District 12 crowd before 
the Peacekeepers closed in and the reaping broadcast cut to District 8. 

Coriolanus acted engrossed in the show as 8, 6, and 11 called their 
tributes, but his brain spun with the repercussions of landing Lucy 
Gray Baird. She was a gift, he knew it, and he must treat her as such. 
But how best to exploit her showstopping entrance? How to wrangle 


some success from a dress, a snake, a song? The tributes would be 


given precious little time with the audience before the Games began. 
How could he get the audience to invest in her and, by extension, 
him, in just an interview? He half registered the other tributes, mostly 
pitiful creatures, and took note of the stronger ones. Sejanus got a 
towering fellow from District 2, and Livia’s District 1 boy looked like 
he could be a contender as well. Coriolanus’s girl seemed fairly 
healthy, but her slight build was more suited to dancing than hand-to- 
hand combat. He bet she could run fast enough, though, and that was 
important. 

As the reaping drew to a close, the smell of food from the buffet 
wafted over the audience. Fresh-baked bread. Onions. Meat. 
Coriolanus could not keep his stomach from growling, and risked 
another couple swallows of posca to quiet it. He felt wired, light- 
headed, and ravenous. After the screen went dark, he had to use all 
the discipline he could muster not to rush for the buffet. 

The endless dance with hunger had defined his life. Not the very 
early years, before the war, but every day since had been a battle, a 
negotiation, a game. How was it best to stave off hunger? Eat all the 
food at one meal? Spread it through the day in dribs and drabs? Wolf 
it down or chew every morsel to liquid? It was all just a mind game to 
distract himself from the fact that it was never enough. No one would 
ever let him have enough. 

During the war, the rebels had held the food-producing districts. 
Taking a page out of the Capitol’s playbook, they’d tried to starve the 


Capitol into submission using food— or a lack thereof— as a 


weapon. Now the tables had turned again, with the Capitol 
controlling the supply and taking it one step further, twisting the 
knife into the districts’ hearts with the Hunger Games. Amid the 
violence of the Games, there was a silent agony that everyone in 
Panem had experienced, the desperation for enough sustenance to 
bring you to the following sunrise. 

That desperation had turned upstanding Capitol citizens into 
monsters. People who dropped dead from starvation in the streets 
became part of a gruesome food chain. One winter’s night, Coriolanus 
and Tigris had slipped out of the apartment to scavenge some wooden 
crates they’d spotted earlier in an alley. On the way, they passed three 
bodies, recognizing one as that of a young maid who served tea so 
nicely at the Cranes’ afternoon gatherings. A heavy, wet snow began 
falling and they thought the streets deserted, but on the way home, a 
bundled figure sent them scurrying behind a hedge. They watched as 
their neighbor Nero Price, a titan in the railroad industry, carved the 
leg from the maid, sawing back and forth with a terrifying knife until 
the limb came free. He wrapped it in the skirt he ripped from her 
waist and then bolted down the side street that led to the back of his 
town house. The cousins never spoke of it, even to each other, but it 
was burned into Coriolanus’s memory. The savagery distorting Price’s 
face, the white anklet and scuffed black shoe at the end of the severed 
limb, and the absolute horror of realizing that he, too, could now be 
viewed as edible. 


Coriolanus credited both his literal and moral survival to the 


Grandma’am’s foresight early in the war. His parents were dead, 
Tigris orphaned as well, and both children were living with their 
grandmother. The rebels had been making slow but steady progress to 
the Capitol, although arrogance kept that reality from being widely 
acknowledged in the city. Food shortages required even the richest to 
seek out certain supplies on the black market. That was how 
Coriolanus found himself at the back door of a once-trendy nightclub 
one late October afternoon, holding the handle of a small red wagon 
in one hand and the Grandma’am’s gloved hand in the other. There 
was a bitter chill in the air that warned ominously of winter, and a 
blanket of gloomy, gray clouds overhead. They had come to see 
Pluribus Bell, an aging man with lemon-tinted spectacles and a white 
powdered wig that fell to his waist. He and his partner, Cyrus, a 
musician, owned the shuttered club and now made do by trafficking 
goods from its back alley. The Snows had come for a case of canned 
milk, the fresh stuff having disappeared weeks ago, but Pluribus said 
he was sold out. What had just arrived were crates of dried lima 
beans, stacked high on the mirrored stage behind him. 

“They'll keep for years,” Pluribus promised the Grandma’am. “I 
plan on setting aside twenty or so for personal use.” 

Coriolanus’s grandmother had laughed. “How ghastly.” 

“No, my dear. Ghastly is what happens without them,” Pluribus 
said. 

He didn’t elaborate, but the Grandma’am stopped laughing. She 


shot a look at Coriolanus, and her hand clenched his for a second. It 


seemed involuntary, almost a spasm. Then she looked at the crates 
and appeared to be figuring something in her head. “How many can 
you spare?” she asked the club owner. Coriolanus pulled one crate 
home in his wagon, and the other twenty-nine arrived in the dead of 
night, as hoarding was technically illegal. Cyrus and a friend hauled 
the crates up the stairs and piled them in the middle of the lavishly 
furnished living room. On the top of the pile, they placed a single can 
of milk, compliments of Pluribus, then bid them good night. 
Coriolanus and Tigris helped the Grandma’am hide them in closets, in 
fancy wardrobes, even in the old clock. 

“Who’s going to eat all these?” he asked. At this time, there was 
still bacon in his life, and chicken, and the occasional roast. Milk was 
spotty but cheese plentiful, and some sort of dessert could be counted 
on at dinner, even if it was just jam bread. 

“We'll eat some. Perhaps some we can trade,” said the 
Grandma’am. “They’ll be our secret.” 

“T don’t like lima beans.” Coriolanus pouted. “At least, I don’t 
think I do.” 

“Well, we'll have Cook find a good recipe,” said the Grandma’am. 

But the cook had been called to serve in the war, then died of the 
flu. The Grandma’am, it turned out, did not even know how to turn on 
the stove, let alone follow a recipe. It fell to eight-year-old Tigris to 
boil the beans to the thick stew, then the soup, then the watery broth, 
which was to sustain them throughout the war. Lima beans. Cabbage. 


The ration of bread. They lived on it, day in, day out, for years. 


Surely, it had impeded his growth. Surely, he would be taller, his 
shoulders broader, had he had more food. But his brain had developed 
properly; at least he hoped it had. Beans, cabbage, brown bread. 
Coriolanus grew to hate the stuff, but it kept them alive, without 
shame, and without cannibalizing the dead bodies in the streets. 

Coriolanus swallowed the saliva flooding his mouth as he reached 
for the gilt-edged plate embossed with the Academy’s seal. Even in the 
leanest days, the Capitol had not lacked fancy dishware, and he had 
eaten many a cabbage leaf from fine china at home. He collected a 
linen napkin, a fork, a knife. As he raised the lid on the first sterling 
silver chafing dish, the steam bathed his lips. Creamed onions. He 
took a modest spoonful and tried not to drool. Boiled potatoes. 
Summer squash. Baked ham. Hot rolls and a pat of butter. On second 
thought, two pats. A full plate, but not a greedy one. Not for a teenage 
boy. 

He set his plate on the table next to Clemensia and went to 
retrieve his dessert from a cart, because last year they had run out and 
he’d missed the tapioca entirely. His heart skipped a beat when he 
saw the rows of apple pie wedges, each decorated with a paper flag 
sporting the seal of Panem. Pie! When had he last tasted that? He was 
reaching for a medium-sized piece when someone thrust a plate with 
an enormous slice under his nose. “Oh, take a big one. Growing boy 
like you can handle it.” 

Dean Highbottom’s eyes were rheumy, but they had lost the glazed 


look of the morning. In fact, they were trained on Coriolanus with an 


unexpected sharpness. 

He took the plate of pie with a grin he hoped was boyishly good- 
natured. “Thank you, sir. I can always find room for pie.” 

“Yes, pleasures are never hard to accommodate,” said the dean. 
“No one would know better than I.” 

“I suppose not, sir.” But that sounded wrong. He had meant to 
agree with the part about pleasures, but it sounded like a snide 
remark about the dean’s character. 

“You suppose not.” Dean Highbottom’s eyes narrowed as he 
continued to stare at Coriolanus. “So, what are your plans, Coriolanus, 
after the Games?” 

“I hope to go on to university,” he replied. What a strange 
question. Surely, his academic record made that evident. 

“Yes, I saw your name among the prize contenders,” said Dean 
Highbottom. “But if you shouldn’t be awarded one?” 

Coriolanus stammered. “Well, then we’d... we’d pay the tuition, 
of course.” 

“Would you?” Dean Highbottom laughed. “Look at you, in your 
makeshift shirt and your too-tight shoes, trying to hold it together. 
Strutting around the Capitol, when I doubt the Snows have a pot to 
piss in. Even with a prize, it would be a stretch, and you don’t yet 
have one, do you? What then, I wonder, would happen to you? What 
then?” 

Coriolanus could not help but glance around to see who else had 


heard the terrible words, but most people were engaged in mealtime 


chatter. 

“Don’t worry — nobody knows. Well, hardly anyone. Enjoy that 
pie, boy.” Dean Highbottom walked away without bothering to take a 
piece himself. 

Coriolanus wanted nothing so much as to drop his pie and run for 
the exit, but instead he carefully set the oversized slice back on the 
cart. The nickname. It could only be that the nickname had found its 
way back to Dean Highbottom, with Coriolanus given the credit. It 
had been stupid on his part. The dean was too powerful a person, 
even now, to be ridiculing in public. But was it really such a horrible 
thing? Every teacher had at least one nickname, many far less 
flattering. And it wasn’t as if High-as-a-Kite-Bottom had made much 
effort to hide his habit. He seemed to invite derision. Could there be 
some other reason he hated Coriolanus so much? 

Whatever it was, Coriolanus needed to set it right. He could not 
risk losing his prize over such a thing. After university he planned to 
embark on some lucrative profession. Without an education, what 
doors would be open to him? He tried to imagine his future in some 
low-level city position . . . doing what? Managing the coal distribution 
to the districts? Cleaning cages of genetic freaks in the muttations lab? 
Collecting taxes from Sejanus Plinth in his palatial apartment on the 
Corso while he lived in some rat hole fifty blocks out? That’s if he 
were lucky! Capitol jobs were hard to come by, and he would be a 
penniless Academy graduate, no more. How was he to live? Borrow? 


Being in debt in the Capitol was historically a ticket to being a 


Peacekeeper, and that came with a twenty-year commitment to who 
knew where. They’d ship him off to some horrid backwater district 
where the people were hardly better than animals. 

The day, which had held such promise, came crashing down 
around him. First the threat of losing his apartment, then the lowliest 
tribute assignment — who, on further reflection, was definitely 
crazy — and now the revelation that Dean Highbottom detested him 
enough to kill his prize chances and condemn him to a life in the 
districts! 

Everyone knew what happened if you went to the districts. You 
were written off. Forgotten. In the eyes of the Capitol, you were 


basically dead. 


< 


Coriolanus stood on the empty train platform, awaiting his 
tribute’s arrival, a long-stemmed white rose balanced carefully 
between his thumb and index finger. It had been Tigris’s idea to bring 
her a gift. She had arrived home very late on the night of the reaping, 
but he had waited up to consult with her, to tell her of his 
humiliations and fears. She refused to let the conversation spin into 
despair. He would get a prize; he would have to! And have a brilliant 
university career. As to the apartment, they must find out the specifics 
first. Perhaps the tax would not affect them, or even if it did, maybe 
not soon. Maybe they could scrape up enough for the taxes somehow. 
But he was to think of none of that. Only of the Hunger Games, and 
how he might make a success of it. 

At Fabricia’s reaping party, Tigris said, everyone was nuts about 
Lucy Gray Baird. His tribute had “star quality,” her friends had 
declared as they drunkenly slurped their posca. The cousins agreed 


that he needed to make a good first impression on the girl so that she 


would be willing to work with him. He should treat her not as a 
condemned prisoner, but as a guest. Coriolanus had decided to greet 
her early at the train station. It would give him a jump on the 
assignment, as well as an opportunity to win her trust. 

“Imagine how terrified she must be, Coryo,” Tigris had said. “How 
alone she must feel. If it was me, anything you could do to make me 
feel like you cared about me would go a long way. No, more than 
that. Like I was of value. Take her something, even a token, that lets 
her know you value her.” 

Coriolanus thought about his grandmother’s roses, which were still 
prized in the Capitol. The old woman nurtured them arduously in the 
roof garden that came with the penthouse, both out of doors and in a 
small solar greenhouse. She parceled out her flowers like diamonds, 
though, so it had taken a good bit of persuasion to get this beauty. “I 
need to make a connection with her. As you always say, your roses 
open any doors.” It was a testament to how worried his grandmother 
was about their situation that she had allowed it. 

Two days had passed since the reaping. The city had held on to 
the oppressive heat, and even though it was just past dawn, the train 
station was beginning to bake. Coriolanus felt conspicuous on the 
wide, deserted platform, but he couldn’t risk missing her train. The 
only information he could get out of his downstairs neighbor, 
Gamemaker-in-Training Remus Dolittle, was that it was supposed to 
arrive Wednesday. Remus had recently graduated from the University, 


and his family had pulled in every favor they had to get him the 


position, which paid just enough and provided a stepping-stone to the 
future. Coriolanus could have inquired through the Academy, but he 
didn’t know if greeting the train would be frowned upon. No rules had 
been laid out, per se, but he thought most of his classmates would 
wait to meet their tributes at a session overseen by the Academy the 
following day. 

An hour passed, then two, and still no train of any kind appeared. 
The sun beat down through the glass panes of the station ceiling. 
Perspiration trickled down his back, and the rose, so majestic that 
morning, began to bend in resignation. He wondered if the whole idea 
was ill-conceived and if he would get no thanks for greeting her in 
this way. Another girl, a typical girl, would be impressed, but there 
was nothing typical about Lucy Gray Baird. In fact, there was 
something intimidating about a girl who could pull off such a brazen 
performance on the heels of the mayor’s assault. And that, just after 
she had dropped a venomous snake down another girl’s dress. Of 
course, he didn’t know that it was venomous, but that was where the 
mind went, wasn’t it? She was terrifying, really. And here he was in 
his uniform, clutching a rose like some lovestruck schoolboy, hoping 
she would — what? Like him? Trust him? Not kill him on sight? 

Her cooperation was imperative. Yesterday, Satyria had led a 
mentor meeting in which their first assignment had been detailed. In 
the past, the tributes had gone directly into the arena the morning 
after they’d all arrived in the Capitol, but the time line had been 


extended now that the Academy students were involved. It had been 


decided that each mentor was to interview their tribute and would be 
given five minutes to present them to Panem on a live television 
program. If people had someone to root for, they might actually have 
an interest in watching the Hunger Games. If all went well, it would 
be prime-time viewing — the mentors might even be invited to 
comment on their tributes during the Games. Coriolanus promised 
himself that his five minutes would be the standout of the night. 

Another hour crawled by and he was just about ready to give up, 
when a train whistle sounded deep in the tunnel. Those first few 
months of the war, the whistle had signaled his father’s arrival from 
the battlefield. His father had felt that, as a munitions tycoon, military 
service enhanced his legitimacy in the family business. With an 
excellent head for strategy, nerves of steel, and a commanding 
presence, he’d quickly climbed the ranks. To publicly display their 
commitment to the Capitol cause, the Snow family would all travel to 
the station, Coriolanus in his velvet suit, to await the great man’s 
return. Until the day the train brought only the news that a rebel 
bullet had found its mark. It was hard, in the Capitol, to find a spot 
that wasn’t linked to a terrible memory, but this was particularly bad. 
He could not say he had felt great love for the remote, strict man, but 
he had certainly felt protected by him. His death was associated with 
a fear and a vulnerability that Coriolanus had never been able to 
shake off. 

The whistle blew as the train sped into the station and screeched 


to a halt. It was a short train, only an engine and two cars. Coriolanus 


looked for a glimpse of his tribute in the windows before he realized 
the cars had none. They were designed not for passengers but for 
cargo. Heavy metal chains attached by old-fashioned padlocks secured 
the goods. 

The wrong train, he thought. Might as well go home. But then a 
distinctly human cry came from one of the cargo cars and he 
remained in place. 

He expected a rush of Peacekeepers, but the train sat ignored for 
twenty minutes before a few made their way to the rails. One of them 
exchanged words with an unseen engineer, and a set of keys was 
tossed out the window. The Peacekeeper took his time meandering 
down to the first car, flipping through the keys before he selected one, 
stuck it in the padlock, and gave it a twist. The lock and chains fell 
away, and he rolled back the heavy door. The car appeared empty. 
The Peacekeeper pulled out his baton and banged it against the 
doorframe. “All right, you lot, let’s move!” 

A tall boy with dark brown skin and patched burlap clothing 
appeared in the doorway. Coriolanus recognized him as Clemensia’s 
tribute from District 11, rangy but muscular. A girl with similar 
coloring but a skeletal frame and a hacking cough joined him. Both of 
them were barefoot with their hands cuffed in front of their bodies. It 
was a five-foot drop to the ground, so they sat on the edge of the car 
before launching themselves awkwardly onto the platform. A small, 
pasty-faced girl in a striped dress and red scarf crawled to the door 


but seemed unable to figure out how to cover the distance to the 


ground. The Peacekeeper yanked her down and she landed hard, 
barely catching herself with her bound hands. Then he reached into 
the car and dragged out a boy who looked about ten years old but had 
to be at least twelve, and hauled him onto the platform as well. 

By now the smell of the car, musty and heavy with manure, had 
reached Coriolanus. They were transporting the tributes in livestock 
cars, and not very clean ones at that. He wondered if they had been 
fed and let out for fresh air, or just locked in after their reapings. 
Accustomed as he was to viewing the tributes on-screen, he had not 
prepared himself properly for this encounter in the flesh, and a wave 
of pity and revulsion swept through him. They really were creatures 
out of another world. A hopeless, brutish world. 

The Peacekeeper moved on to the second car and released the 
chains. The door slid open, revealing Jessup, the male District 12 
tribute, squinting into the brightly lit station. Coriolanus felt a jolt run 
through him, and his body straightened in anticipation. Surely, she 
would be with him. Jessup hopped stiffly to the ground and turned 
back to the train. 

Lucy Gray Baird stepped into the light, her cuffed hands half 
covering her eyes as they adjusted. Jessup reached up his arms, his 
wrists spread as wide as the chain on his restraints would allow, and 
she fell forward, letting him catch her by the waist and swing her to 
the ground in a surprisingly graceful move. She patted the boy’s 
sleeve in thanks and tilted her head back to drink in the sunlight 


streaming into the station. Her fingers began combing through her 


curls, untangling the knots and picking out bits of straw. 

Coriolanus’s attention turned for a moment to the Peacekeepers, 
who were hollering threats into the train car. When he gazed back, 
Lucy Gray was staring directly at him. He started a bit but then 
remembered that he was the only one on the platform besides the 
Peacekeepers. The soldiers were cursing now as they hoisted one of 
their number into the train car to retrieve the reluctant tributes. 

It was now or never. 

He crossed to Lucy Gray, extended the rose, and gave a small nod. 
“Welcome to the Capitol,” he said. His voice was slightly gravelly, as 
he had not spoken for hours, but he thought it gave him a nice 
maturity. 

The girl sized him up, and for a minute he feared she was going to 
either walk away or, worse, laugh at him. Instead she reached out and 
delicately plucked a petal from the flower in his hand. 

“When I was little, they used to bathe me in buttermilk and rose 
petals,” she said in a manner that, despite the unlikeliness of her 
claim, seemed totally believable. She ran her thumb over the glossy, 
white surface and slipped the petal into her mouth, closing her eyes to 
savor the flavor. “Tastes like bedtime.” 

Coriolanus took the moment to examine her. She looked different 
than she had at the reaping. Except for flecks here and there, the 
makeup had been wiped away, and without it she appeared younger. 
Her lips were chapped, her hair loose, her rainbow dress dusty and 


rumpled. The mark from the mayor’s blow had turned to a deep 


purple bruise. But there was something else, too. He again had the 
impression that he was witnessing a performance, but a private one 
this time. 

When she opened her eyes, she trained all her attention on him. 
“You don’t look like you should be here.” 

“I probably shouldn’t be,” he admitted. “But I’m your mentor. And 
I wanted to meet you on my own terms. Not the Gamemakers’.” 

“Ah, a rebel,” she said. 

That word was poison in the mouths of Capitol citizens, but she 
had said it approvingly, as a compliment. Or, was she mocking him? 
He remembered she carried snakes in her pocket and the usual rules 
didn’t apply to her. 

“And what does my mentor do for me, besides bring me roses?” 
she asked. 

“I do my best to take care of you,” he said. 

She glanced over her shoulder, where the Peacekeepers were 
tossing two half-starved children onto the platform. The girl broke a 
front tooth on the platform, while the boy received several sharp kicks 
upon landing. 

Lucy Gray smiled up at Coriolanus. “Well, good luck, Gorgeous,” 
she said, and walked back to Jessup, leaving him and his rose behind. 

As the Peacekeepers herded the tributes across the station to the 
main entrance, Coriolanus felt his chance slipping away. He had not 
secured her trust. He had not done anything except perhaps amuse 


her for a moment. Clearly, she thought he was useless, and maybe she 


was right, but with all that was at stake, he had to try. He ran across 
the station, catching up to the pack of tributes as they reached the 
door. 

“Excuse me,” he said to the Peacekeeper in charge. “I’m 
Coriolanus Snow from the Academy.” He inclined his head toward 
Lucy Gray. “This tribute has been assigned to me for the Hunger 
Games. I wonder if I might accompany her to her quarters.” 

“That’s why you been hanging around here all morning? To catch 
a ride to the show?” asked the Peacekeeper. He reeked of liquor and 
his eyes were rimmed with red. “Well, by all means, Mr. Snow. Join 
the party.” 

It was then that Coriolanus saw the truck that awaited the tributes. 
Less a truck than a cage on wheels. The bed was enclosed by metal 
bars and topped with a steel roof. He again flashed back to the circus 
of his childhood, where he had seen wild animals — big cats and 
bears — confined to such transport. Following orders, the tributes 
presented their cuffs for removal and climbed into the cage. 

Coriolanus hung back but then saw Lucy Gray watching him and 
knew this was the moment of judgment. If he backed down now, it 
would all be over. She would think he was a coward and dismiss him 
entirely. He took a deep breath and hoisted himself up into the cage. 

The door slammed shut behind him, and the truck lurched 
forward, knocking him off balance. He reflexively grabbed for the bars 
on his right and wound up with his forehead crammed between them 


as a couple of the tributes fell into him. He pushed back forcefully and 


twisted his body around to face his fellow passengers. Everyone had 
hold of at least one bar now except the girl with the broken tooth, 
who was clinging to the leg of the boy from her district. As the truck 
rumbled down a wide avenue, they began to settle in. 

Coriolanus knew he had made a mistake. Even in the open air, the 
stench was overwhelming. The tributes had absorbed the odor of the 
cattle car and it mixed with an unwashed human smell that made him 
feel slightly nauseous. Up close, he could see how grubby they were, 
how bloodshot their eyes, how bruised their limbs. Lucy Gray was 
crammed into a corner at the front, dabbing a fresh scrape on her 
forehead with her ruffled hem. She seemed indifferent to his presence, 
but the rest of them stared at him like a pack of feral animals eyeing a 
pampered poodle. 

At least I’m in better condition than they are, he thought, and he 
made a fist around the stem of the rose. If they attack, I’ll stand a 
chance. But would he? Against so many? 

The truck slowed to let one of the colorful street trolleys, packed 
with people, cross in front of it. Although he was in the back, 
Coriolanus hunched down to avoid being noticed. 

The trolley passed, the truck began to roll, and he dared to 
straighten up. They were laughing at him, the tributes, or at least 
some of them were grinning at his obvious discomfort. 

“What’s the matter, pretty boy? You in the wrong cage?” said the 
boy from District 11, who was not laughing at all. 


The undisguised hatred rattled Coriolanus, but he tried to look 


unimpressed. “No, this is exactly the cage I was waiting for.” 

The boy’s hands came up fast, encircling Coriolanus’s throat with 
his long, scarred fingers and slamming him back. His forearms pinned 
Coriolanus’s body against the bars. Overpowered, Coriolanus resorted 
to the one move that had yet to fail him in schoolyard scuffles, driving 
his knee up hard into his opponent’s crotch. The district boy gasped 
and doubled over, releasing him. 

“He might kill you now.” The girl from District 11 coughed in 
Coriolanus’s face. “He killed a Peacekeeper back in Eleven. They 
never found out who did it.” 

“Shut it, Dill,” the boy growled. 

“Who cares now?” said Dill. 

“Let’s all kill him,” the tiny boy said viciously. “Can’t do nothing 
worse to us.” 

Several other tributes murmured in agreement and took a step in. 

Coriolanus went rigid with fear. Kill him? Did they really mean to 
beat him to death, right here in broad daylight, in the middle of the 
Capitol? Suddenly, he knew they did. What, after all, did they have to 
lose? His heart pounded in his chest, and he crouched slightly, fists 
extended, in anticipation of the imminent attack. 

From the corner, Lucy Gray’s melodic voice broke the tension. 
“Not to us, maybe. You got family back home? Someone they could 
punish there?” 

This seemed to take the wind out of the other tributes’ sails. She 


wriggled through and placed herself between them and Coriolanus. 


“Besides,” she said, “he’s my mentor. Supposed to help me. I might 
need him.” 

“How come you get a mender?” asked Dill. 

“Mentor. You each get one,” explained Coriolanus, trying to sound 
on top of the situation. 

“Where are they, then?” Dill challenged. “Why didn’t they come?” 

“Just not inspired, I guess,” said Lucy Gray. Turning from Dill, she 
gave Coriolanus a wink. 

The truck veered onto a narrow side street and bumped down to 
what appeared to be a dead end. Coriolanus could not quite get his 
bearings. He tried to remember where the tributes had been held in 
previous years. Hadn’t it been in the stables that housed the 
Peacekeepers’ horses? Yes, he thought he had heard some mention of 
that. As soon as they arrived, he would find a Peacekeeper and 
explain things, perhaps ask for a bit of protection given the hostility. 
After Lucy Gray’s wink, it might be worthwhile to stay. 

They were backing in now to a dimly lit building, maybe a 
warehouse. Coriolanus inhaled a musky mix of rotten fish and old 
hay. Confused, he tried to get a better fix on his surroundings, and his 
eyes strained to make out two metal doors swinging open. A 
Peacekeeper opened the back door to the truck, and before anyone 
could climb out, the cage tipped and dumped them onto a slab of 
cold, damp cement. Not a slab, actually more like a chute, for it was 
tilted at such an extreme angle that Coriolanus began to slide 


immediately, along with the rest. He dropped the rose as his hands 


and feet scrabbled for purchase but found none. They all traveled a 
good twenty feet before they landed in a jumbled heap on a gritty 
floor. Sunlight glared down on Coriolanus as he scrambled to untangle 
his body from the pack. He staggered out a few yards, righted himself, 
and froze in horror. This was not the stables. While he had not visited 
in many years, he remembered it clearly now. The stretch of sand. 
The artificial rock formations twisting high in the air. The row of 
metal bars engraved to look like vines curved in a wide arc to protect 
the audience. Between the sets of bars, the faces of Capitol children 
gawked at him. 


He was in the monkey house at the zoo. 


> 


He could not have felt more exposed had he been standing naked 
in the middle of the Corso. At least then he would’ve had the option 
to escape. Now he was trapped and on display, for the first time 
appreciating the animals’ inability to hide. Children had begun to 
chatter excitedly and point at his school uniform, drawing the 
attention of the adults. Faces were filling all the available space 
between the bars. But the real horror was a pair of cameras positioned 
at either end of the visitors. 

Capitol News. With their omnipresent coverage and their saucy 
slogan, “If you didn’t see it here, it didn’t happen.” 

Oh, it was happening. To him. Now. 

He could feel his image going live all over the Capitol. 
Fortunately, shock rooted him to the spot, because the only thing 
worse than him standing among the district riffraff in the zoo would 
be him running around like a fool trying to escape. There was no easy 
way out. It was built for wild animals. Attempting to hide would be 


even more pathetic. Imagine how delicious that footage would be for 


Capitol News. They would play it ad nauseam. Add silly music and 
captions. Snow’s meltdown! Make it part of the weather report. Too hot 
for Snow! They would rerun it as long as he lived. His disgrace would 
be complete. 

What option did that leave him? Only to stand his ground, looking 
the cameras dead in the eye, until he was rescued. 

He straightened up to his full height, subtly shifted back his 
shoulders, and attempted to look bored. The audience began to call 
out to him — first the high-pitched children’s voices, then the adults 
joining in, asking what he was doing, why was he in the cage, did he 
need help? Someone recognized him, and his name spread like 
wildfire through the crowd, which was becoming deeper by the 
minute. 

“It’s the Snow boy!” 

“Who’s that again?” 

“You know, the ones with the roses on their roof!” 

Who were all these people hanging around on a weekday at the 
zoo? Didn’t they have jobs? Shouldn’t the children be in school? No 
wonder the country was such a mess. 

The district tributes began to circle, taunting him. There was the 
pair from District 11, and the vicious little boy who had called for his 
death, and several new ones, too. He remembered the hatred in the 
truck and wondered what would happen if they attacked him as a 
pack. Perhaps the audience would only cheer them on. 


Coriolanus tried not to panic, but he could feel sweat running 


down his sides. All the faces — of the nearby tributes, of the crowd at 
the bars — began to blur. Their features became indistinct, leaving 
only dark and light patches of skin broken by the pinkish red of their 
open mouths. His limbs felt numb, his lungs starved for air. He was 
beginning to consider making a break for the chute and attempting to 
climb it when a voice behind him softly said, “Own it.” 

Without turning he knew it was the girl, his girl, and he felt 
immense relief that he was not entirely alone. He thought of how 
cleverly she had played the audience after the mayor’s assault, how 
she had won them all with her song. She was right, of course. He had 
to make this moment look intentional or it was all over. 

He took a deep breath and turned to where she sat, casually fixing 
the white rose behind her ear. She always seemed to be improving her 
appearance. Arranging her ruffles in District 12, grooming her hair at 
the train station, and now adorning herself with the rose. He extended 
his hand to her as if she was the grandest lady in the Capitol. 

The edges of Lucy Gray’s mouth curled up. As she took his hand, 
her touch sent a tiny electrical spark up his arm, and he felt as if a bit 
of her onstage charisma had been transferred to him. He made a small 
bow as she stood with exaggerated elegance. 

She’s onstage. You’re onstage. This is the show, he thought. He lifted 
his head and asked, “Would you care to meet a few of my neighbors?” 

“I would be delighted,” she said as if they were at an afternoon 
tea. “My left side is better,” she murmured, lightly brushing her 


cheek. He wasn’t sure what to do with the information, so he started 


to guide her to the left. Lucy Gray gave the spectators a big smile, 
seemingly pleased to be there, but as he led her to the bars he could 
feel her fingers clenching his like a vise. 

A shallow moat that ran between the rocky structures and the bars 
of the monkey house had once formed a watery barrier between the 
animals and the visitors, but it was bone-dry now. They descended 
three steps, crossed the moat, and climbed back up to a shelf that ran 
around the enclosure, putting them eye-to-eye with the patrons. 
Coriolanus chose a spot several yards from one of the cameras — let it 
come to him — where a gaggle of small children stood in a cluster. 
The bars were spaced about four inches apart — not enough room to 
slide a whole body between, but ample if you wanted to reach your 
hand through. The children fell silent as they approached, pressing 
back into their parents’ legs. 

Coriolanus thought the afternoon tea image was as good as any, so 
he continued to treat the situation with the same lightness. “How do 
you do?” he said, leaning over to the children. “I brought along a 
friend of mine today. Would you like to meet her?” 

The children shifted around, and there were a few giggles. Then 
one little boy shouted, “Yes!” He slapped the bars with his hands a 
few times, then shoved them in his pockets uncertainly. “We saw her 
on the television.” 

Coriolanus led Lucy Gray right up to the bars. “May I present Miss 
Lucy Gray Baird?” 


The audience had fallen silent now, nervous at her proximity to 


the children but eager to hear what the strange tribute was going to 
say. Lucy Gray went down on one knee about a foot from the bars. 
“Hi there. I’m Lucy Gray. What’s your name?” 

“Pontius,” the boy said, glancing up to his mother for reassurance. 
She looked warily at Lucy Gray, but the girl ignored her. 

“How do you do, Pontius?” she said. 

Like any well-bred Capitol lad, the boy thrust his hand out to 
shake. Lucy Gray raised her hand to meet his but refrained from 
sticking it through the bars, which might have appeared threatening. 
As a result, it was the boy who reached into the cage to make contact. 
She squeezed his little hand warmly. 

“So nice to meet you. Is this your sister?” Lucy Gray nodded to the 
little girl next to him. She stood saucer-eyed as she sucked on a finger. 

“That’s Venus,” he said. “She’s only four.” 

“Well, I think four is a very smart age to be,” said Lucy Gray. 
“Nice to meet you, Venus.” 

“T liked your song,” whispered Venus. 

“You did?” said Lucy Gray. “That’s so sweet. Well, you keep 
watching, Precious, and I'll try to sing you another. Okay?” 

Venus nodded and then buried her face in her mother’s skirt, 
bringing laughter and a few aws from the crowd. 

Lucy Gray began to sidestep her way along the fence, engaging the 
children as she went. Coriolanus hung back a bit to give her space. 

“Did you bring your snake?” a girl clutching a dripping strawberry 


ice pop asked hopefully. 


“T sure wish I could have. That snake was a particular friend of 
mine,” Lucy Gray told her. “Do you have a pet?” 

“T have a fish,” said the girl. She leaned into the bars. “His name is 
Bub.” She transferred her treat to her other hand and reached through 
the bars for Lucy Gray. “Can I touch your dress?” Streaks of ruby 
syrup ran from her fist to her elbow, but Lucy Gray just laughed and 
offered up a bit of her skirt. The girl ran a tentative finger over the 
ruffles. “It’s pretty.” 

“T like yours, too.” The girl’s dress was a faded, printed thing, 
nothing to remark on. But Lucy Gray said, “Polka dots always make 
me feel happy,” and the girl beamed. 

Coriolanus could sense the audience beginning to warm up to his 
tribute, no longer bothering to keep their distance. People were easy 
to manipulate when it came to their children. So pleased to see them 
pleased. 

Instinctively, Lucy Gray seemed to know this, ignoring the adults 
as she moved along. She had almost reached one of the cameras and 
its accompanying reporter. She must have sensed it, but when she 
rose and found it directly in her face, she gave a slight start, then 
laughed. “Oh, hi there. Are we on television?” 

The Capitol reporter, a young man eager for a story, leaned in 
hungrily. “We certainly are.” 

“And who might you be?” she asked. 

“Pm Lepidus Malmsey with Capitol News,” he said, flashing a grin. 


“So, Lucy, you’re the tribute from District Twelve?” 


“It’s Lucy Gray and I’m not really from Twelve,” she said. “My 
people are Covey. Musicians by trade. We just took a wrong turn one 
day and were obliged to stay.” 

“Oh. So... what district are you from, then?” asked Lepidus. 

“No district in particular. We move from place to place as the 
fancy takes us.” Lucy Gray caught herself. “Well, we used to anyway. 
Before the Peacekeepers rounded us up a few years back.” 

“But now youw’re District Twelve citizens,” he insisted. 

“If you say so.” Lucy Gray’s eyes drifted back to the crowd as if 
she was in danger of being bored. 

The reporter could feel her slipping away. “Your dress has been a 
big hit in the Capitol!” 

“Has it? Well, the Covey love color, and me more than most. But 
this was my mama’s, so it’s extra special to me,” she said. 

“She in District Twelve?” Lepidus asked. 

“Just her bones, darling. Just her pearly white bones.” Lucy Gray 
stared directly at the reporter, who seemed to have trouble forming 
his next question. She watched him struggle for a moment, then 
gestured to Coriolanus. “So, do you know my mentor? Says his name 
is Coriolanus Snow. He’s a Capitol boy and clearly I got the cake with 
the cream, ’cause nobody else’s mentor even bothered to show up to 
welcome them.” 

“Well, he gave us all a surprise. Did your teachers tell you to be 
here, Coriolanus?” asked Lepidus. 


Coriolanus stepped toward the camera and tried for likable with a 


hint of roguishness. “They didn’t tell me not to.” Laughter rippled 
through the crowd. “But I do remember them saying that I was to 
introduce Lucy Gray to the Capitol, and I take that job seriously.” 

“So you didn’t have a second thought about diving into a cage of 
tributes?” prompted the reporter. 

“A second, a third, and I imagine the fourth and fifth will be 
hitting me sometime soon,” admitted Coriolanus. “But if she’s brave 
enough to be here, shouldn’t I be?” 

“Oh, for the record, I didn’t have a choice,” said Lucy Gray. 

“For the record, neither did I,” said Coriolanus. “After I heard you 
sing, I couldn’t keep away. I confess, I’m a fan.” Lucy Gray gave her 
skirt a swish as a smattering of applause came from the crowd. 

“Well, I hope for your sake the Academy agrees with you, 
Coriolanus,” said Lepidus. “I think you’re about to find out.” 

Coriolanus turned to see metal doors, their windows reinforced 
with grates, swinging open in the back of the monkey house. A 
quartet of Peacekeepers marched in and headed straight for him. He 
turned to the camera, intent on making a good exit. 

“Thank you for joining us,” he said. “Remember, it’s Lucy Gray 
Baird, representing District Twelve. Drop by the zoo if you have a 
minute and say hello. I promise she’s well worth the effort.” 

Lucy Gray extended her hand to him with the delicate droop of the 
wrist that invited a kiss. He obliged, and when his lips brushed her 
skin, he felt a pleasant tingle. After giving the audience one last wave, 


he stepped up calmly to meet the Peacekeepers. One nodded tersely, 


and without a word he followed them from the enclosure to a 
respectable applause. 

When the doors closed behind him, his breath came out in a huff 
and he realized how afraid he’d been. He silently congratulated 
himself for maintaining grace under pressure, but the scowls of the 
Peacekeepers suggested they did not share his opinion. 

“What are you playing at?” a Peacekeeper demanded. “You’re not 
allowed in there.” 

“So I thought, until your cohorts unceremoniously dumped me 
down a chute,” Coriolanus replied. He thought the combination of 
cohorts and unceremoniously had just the right note of superiority. “I 
only signed up for the ride to the zoo. ld be happy to explain the 
whole thing to your presiding officer and identify the Peacekeepers 
who did this. But to you, I offer my thanks.” 

“Uh-huh,” she said flatly. “We have orders to escort you to the 
Academy.” 

“Even better,” said Coriolanus, sounding more confident than he 
felt. The quick reaction from the school unsettled him. 

Although the television in the backseat of the Peacekeeper van 
was broken, he was able to catch glimpses of the story along the way 
on the huge public screens that dotted the Capitol. Nervous energy 
began to bubble up as he saw images of first Lucy Gray, then himself, 
beaming out over the city. He could never have planned anything this 
audacious, but since it had happened, he might as well enjoy it. And 


really, he thought, he had given a fine performance. Kept his head. 


Stood his ground. Featured the girl, and she was a natural. Handled it 
all with dignity and a little ironic humor. 

By the time he reached the Academy, he had recovered his 
composure and ascended the steps with assurance. It helped that 
every head was turning his way, and had there been no Peacekeepers 
to hold them at bay, he felt sure his schoolmates would have swarmed 
him. He thought he’d be taken to the office, but the guard deposited 
him on the bench outside the door to, of all places, the high biology 
lab, which was restricted to the senior students most gifted in the 
science. Although it was not his favorite subject — the smell of 
formaldehyde triggered his gag reflex, and he loathed working with a 
partner — he did sufficiently well in genetic manipulation to have 
landed a spot in the class. Nothing like that whiz Io Jasper, who 
seemed to have been born with a microscope attached to her eye. He 
was always gracious to Io, though, and as a result, she adored him. 
With unpopular people, such a minor effort went such a long way. 

But who was he to feel superior? Across from the bench, on the 


bulletin board for student notices, a memo had been posted. It read: 


10th HUNGER GAMES 


MENTOR ASSIGNMENTS 
DISTRICT 1 
Boy Liviaw Cardew 
Girl Palmyra Monty 
DISTRICT 2 
Boy Sejanus Plinth 
Girl Florus Friend 
DISTRICT 3 


Boy Io Jasper 


Girl Urban Canville 
DISTRICT 4 

Boy Persephone Price 
Girl Festus Creed 
DISTRICT 5 

Boy Dennis Fling 

Girl Iphigenia Moss 
DISTRICT 6 

Boy Apollo Ring 

Girl Diana Ring 
DISTRICT 7 

Boy Vipsania Sickle 

Girl Pliny Harrington 
DISTRICT 8 

Boy Juno Phipps 

Girl Hilarius Heavensbee 
DISTRICT 9 

Boy Gaius Breen 

Girl Androcles Anderson 
DISTRICT 10 

Boy Domitia Whimsiwick 
Girl Arachne Crane 
DISTRICT 11 

Boy Clemensia Dovecote 
Girl Felix Ravinstill 
DISTRICT 12 

Boy Lysistrata Vickers 
Girl Coriolanus Snow 


Could there be a more stinging public reminder of his precarious 
position than to be dangling there at the end like an afterthought? 

After Coriolanus spent a few minutes puzzling over why he’d been 
brought to the lab, the guard told him he could go in. At his tentative 
knock, a voice he recognized as Dean Highbottom’s bid him enter. He 
had expected Satyria to be present but found only one other person in 
the lab — a small, stooped old woman with frizzy gray hair who was 
teasing a caged rabbit with a metal rod. She poked at it through the 
mesh until the creature, which had been modified to have the jaw 
strength of a pit bull, yanked the thing from her hand and snapped it 


in two. Then she straightened as well as she could, turned her 


attention to Coriolanus, and exclaimed, “Hippity, hoppity!” 

Dr. Volumnia Gaul, the Head Gamemaker and mastermind behind 
the Capitol’s experimental weapons division, had unnerved Coriolanus 
since childhood. On a school field trip, his class of nine-year-olds had 
watched as she’d melted the flesh off a lab rat with some sort of laser 
and then asked if anyone had any pets they were tired of. Coriolanus 
had no pets — how could they afford to feed one? But Pluribus Bell 
had a fluffy white cat named Boa Bell that would lie in her owner’s 
lap and bat around the ends of his powdered wig. She had taken a 
fancy to Coriolanus and would start up a raspy, mechanical purr the 
moment he petted her head. On those dreary days when he’d slogged 
through the wintry slush to trade back a bag of lima beans for more 
cabbage, it was her silly, silky warmth that had consoled him. It upset 
him to think of Boa Bell ending up in the lab. 

Coriolanus knew Dr. Gaul taught a class at the University, but he’d 
seldom seen her at the Academy. As Head Gamemaker, though, 
anything related to the Hunger Games fell under her purview. Could 
his trip to the zoo have brought her here? Was he about to lose his 
mentorship? 

“Hippity, hoppity.” Dr. Gaul grinned. “How was the zoo?” Then 
she was laughing. “It’s like a children’s rhyme. Hippity, hoppity, how 
was the zoo? You fell in a cage and your tribute did, too!” 

Coriolanus’s lips stretched into a weak smile as his eyes darted 
over to Dean Highbottom for some clue as to how to react. The man 


sat slumped at a lab table, rubbing his temple in a way that suggested 


he had a pounding headache. No help there. 

“T did,” Coriolanus said. “We did. We fell in a cage.” 

Dr. Gaul raised her eyebrows at him, as if expecting more. “And?” 

“And... Wwe... landed onstage?” he added. 

“Ha! Exactly! That’s exactly what you did!” Dr. Gaul gave him an 
approving look. “You’re good at games. Maybe one day you'll be a 
Gamemaker.” 

The thought had never crossed his mind. No disrespect to Remus, 
but it didn’t seem like much of a job. Or like it required any particular 
skill, tossing kids and weapons in an arena and letting them fight it 
out. He supposed they had to organize the reapings and film the 
Games, but he hoped for a more challenging career. “I’ve got a great 
deal to learn before I can even think of that,” he said modestly. 

“The instinct is there. That’s what matters,” said Dr. Gaul. “So, tell 
me, what made you go into the cage?” 

It had been an accident. He was about to say so when he thought 
of Lucy Gray whispering the words Own it. 

“Well... my tribute, she’s on the small side. The kind who’s gone 
in the first five minutes of the Hunger Games. But she’s appealing in a 
scruffy sort of way, with the singing and all.” Coriolanus paused for a 
moment, as if reviewing his plan. “I don’t think she stands a chance of 
winning, but that isn’t the point, is it? I was told we were trying to 
engage the audience. That’s my assignment. To get people to watch. 
So I asked myself, how do I even reach the audience? I go where the 


cameras are.” 


Dr. Gaul nodded. “Yes. Yes, there’s no Hunger Games without the 
audience.” She turned to the dean. “You see, Casca, this one took the 
initiative. He understands the importance of keeping the Games 
alive.” 

Dean Highbottom squinted at him skeptically. “Does he? Or is he 
just showboating for a better grade? What do you think the purpose of 
the Hunger Games is, Coriolanus?” 

“To punish the districts for the rebellion,” Coriolanus said without 
hesitation. 

“Yes, but punishment could take a myriad of forms,” said the 
dean. “Why the Hunger Games?” 

Coriolanus opened his mouth and then hesitated. Why the Hunger 
Games? Why not just drop bombs, or cancel food shipments, or stage 
executions on the steps of the district Justice Buildings? 

His mind jumped to Lucy Gray kneeling at the bars of the cage, 
engaging the children, the thawing of the crowd. They were 
connected in some way that he couldn’t quite articulate. “Because... 
It’s because of the children. How they matter to people.” 

“How do they matter?” Dean Highbottom pressed. 

“People love children,” said Coriolanus. But even as the words 
came out of his mouth, he questioned them. During the war, he had 
been bombed and starved and abused in multiple ways, and not just 
by the rebels. A cabbage ripped from his hands. A Peacekeeper 
bruising his jaw when he mistakenly wandered too close to the 


president’s mansion. He thought of the time he had collapsed and lain 


in the street with the swan flu and no one, no one would stop to help. 
Racked with chills, burning with fever, limbs spiked with pain. Even 
though she was sick herself, Tigris had found him that night and 
somehow gotten him home. 

He faltered. “Sometimes they do,” he added, but it lacked 
conviction. When he thought about it, people’s love of children 
seemed a very fickle thing. “I don’t know why,” he admitted. 

Dean Highbottom shot Dr. Gaul a look. “You see? It’s a failed 
experiment.” 

“It is if no one watches!” she snapped back. She gave Coriolanus 
an indulgent smile. “He’s a child himself. Give him time. I’ve got a 
good feeling about this one. Well, I’m off to visit my mutts.” She 
patted Coriolanus on the arm as she shuffled toward the door. “Very 
hush-hush, but there’s something wonderful going on with the 
reptiles.” 

Coriolanus made as if to follow, but Dean Highbottom’s voice 
stopped him. “So your whole performance was planned. That’s odd. 
Because when you stood up in the cage, I thought you were thinking 
about running.” 

“It was a rather more physical entrance than I had envisioned. It 
took some time to get my bearings. Again, I have a great many things 
to learn,” said Coriolanus. 

“Boundaries being among them. You'll be receiving a demerit for 
engaging in reckless behavior that could have injured a student. You, 


namely. It will go on your permanent record,” said the dean. 


A demerit? What did that even mean? Coriolanus would have to 
review the Academy student guide so he could object to the 
punishment. He was distracted by the dean, who pulled a small bottle 
from his pocket, twisted it open, and applied three drops of clear 
liquid to his tongue. 

Whatever was in the bottle, most likely morphling, worked 
quickly, because Dean Highbottom’s whole body relaxed and a 
dreaminess settled in his eyes. He smiled unpleasantly. “Three such 


demerits, and you’ll be expelled.” 


> 


Coriolanus had never received an official reprimand of any kind, 
nothing that would stain his spotless record. “But —” he started to 
protest. 

“Go, before you receive a second for insubordination,” said Dean 
Highbottom. There was no give in the statement, no invitation to 
negotiate. Coriolanus did as he’d been directed. 

Had Dean Highbottom actually used the word expelled? 

Coriolanus left the Academy in a state of agitation, but once again 
the rush of attention quieted his distress. From his fellow students in 
the hallway, from Tigris and the Grandma’am as they ate a quick 
supper of fried eggs and cabbage soup, from complete strangers as he 
made his way back to the zoo that evening, eager to keep his hand in 
the Games. 

The soft orange glow of the sunset suffused the city, and a cool 
breeze swept away the suffocating heat of the day. Officials had 
extended the zoo’s hours until nine o’clock, allowing the citizens to 


see the tributes, but there had been no more live coverage since his 


earlier visit. Coriolanus had decided to make another appearance to 
check on Lucy Gray and suggest she sing another song. The audience 
would love that, and perhaps it would draw the cameras back again. 

As he wound through the paths of the zoo, he was filled with 
nostalgia for the pleasant days he’d spent there as a child, but he felt 
saddened by the emptiness of the cages. They had once been full of 
fascinating creatures from the Capitol’s genetic ark. Now, in one, a 
lone tortoise lay in the mud, wheezing. A bedraggled toucan 
squawked high in the branches, fluttering freely from one enclosure to 
the next. They were rare survivors of the war, as most animals had 
starved or been eaten. A pair of scrawny raccoons that had likely 
wandered in from the adjacent city park dug in an overturned trash 
can. The only beasts thriving were the rats that chased one another 
around the edges of fountains and scurried across the path mere feet 
away. 

As Coriolanus neared the monkey house, the paths became more 
populated, and a crowd of about a hundred people curved from one 
side of the bars to the other. Someone jostled his arm as they sped by, 
and he recognized Lepidus Malmsey pushing ahead through the 
visitors with the cameraman. A sort of commotion was occurring 
down front, and he climbed up on a boulder to get a better view. 

To his chagrin, he saw Sejanus standing at the edge of the cage 
with a large backpack beside him. He held what appeared to be a 
sandwich through the bars, offering it to the tributes within. For the 


moment, they were all hanging back. Coriolanus could not hear his 


words, but he seemed to be trying to coax Dill, the girl from District 
11, to take it. What was Sejanus up to? Was he trying to outdo him 
and steal the day’s thunder? To take his idea of coming to the zoo and 
then dress it up in a way Coriolanus could never compete with, 
because he could never afford to? Was that whole pack filled with 
sandwiches? That girl wasn’t even his tribute. 

When Sejanus caught sight of Coriolanus, his face brightened and 
he waved him over. Casually, Coriolanus made his way through the 
crowd, soaking up their attention. “Trouble?” he said as he surveyed 
the backpack. It was overflowing with not only sandwiches, but fresh 
plums as well. 

“None of them trust me. And why should they?” asked Sejanus. 

A self-important little girl marched up beside them and pointed to 
a sign on the pillar at the edge of the enclosure. “It says, ‘Please don’t 
feed the animals.” 

“They’re not animals, though,” said Sejanus. “They’re kids, like 
you and me.” 

“They’re not like me!” the little girl protested. “They’re district. 
That’s why they belong in a cage!” 

“Once again, like me,” said Sejanus drily. “Coriolanus, do you 
think you could get your tribute to come over? If she does, the others 
might. They have to be starving.” 

Coriolanus’s mind worked quickly. He had already received one 
demerit today and did not wish to push his luck with Dean 


Highbottom. On the other hand, the demerit had been for 


endangerment of a student, and he was perfectly safe on this side of 
the bars. Dr. Gaul, who was arguably more influential than Dean 
Highbottom, had complimented his initiative. And in truth, he had no 
interest in ceding the stage to Sejanus. The zoo was his show, and he 
and Lucy Gray were the stars. Even now, he could hear Lepidus 
whispering his name to the cameraman, feel the viewers in the Capitol 
watching him. 

He spotted Lucy Gray at the back of the enclosure, washing her 
hands and face at a faucet that jutted from the wall at knee height. 
She dried herself on the ruffled skirt, arranged her curls, and adjusted 
the rose behind her ear. 

“T can’t treat her like it’s feeding time at the zoo,” Coriolanus told 
Sejanus. It was not consistent with his treatment of her as a lady to be 
shoving food to her through the bars. “Not mine. But I could offer her 
dinner.” 

Sejanus nodded immediately. “Take whatever. Ma made extra. 
Please.” 

Coriolanus chose two sandwiches and two plums from the pack 
and crossed to the edge of the monkey house, where a flat rock 
provided a likely seat. Never in his life, not even in the worst years, 
had he left home without a clean handkerchief in his pocket. The 
Grandma’am insisted on certain civilities that held chaos at bay. There 
were great drawers of them going back generations, plain to lacy to 
embroidered with flowers. He spread out the worn, slightly rumpled 


square of white linen and laid out the food. As he seated himself, Lucy 


Gray drifted up to the bars unbidden. 

“Are those sandwiches for anybody?” she asked. 

“Just for you,” he answered. 

She tucked her feet under her and accepted a sandwich. After 
examining its contents, she took a nibble from the corner. “Aren’t you 
eating?” 

He wasn’t sure. The optics so far were good, singling her out 
again, presenting her as someone of value. But to eat with her? That 
might cross a line. 

“Td rather you have it,” he said. “Keep up your strength.” 

“Why? So I can break Jessup’s neck in the arena? We both know 
that’s not my forte,” she said. 

His stomach growled at the smell of the sandwich. A thick slice of 
meat loaf on white bread. He’d missed his lunch at the Academy 
today, and breakfast and supper had been meager at home. A dollop 
of ketchup oozing out of Lucy Gray’s sandwich tipped the scale. He 
lifted the second sandwich and sank his teeth in. A little shock of 
delight ran through his body, and he resisted the impulse to devour 
the sandwich in a couple of bites. 

“Now it’s like a picnic.” Lucy Gray looked back at the other 
tributes, who had moved in closer but still seemed uncertain. “You all 
should get one. They’re real good!” she called. “Go on, Jessup!” 

Emboldened, her hulking district partner slowly approached 
Sejanus and took the sandwich from his hand. He waited until a plum 


followed and then walked off without a word. Suddenly, the other 


tributes rushed the fence, hands thrusting through the bars. Sejanus 
filled them as fast as he could, and within a minute the backpack was 
almost depleted. The tributes spread out around the cage, crouched 
protectively over their food, wolfing it down. 

The only tribute who had not approached Sejanus was his own, 
the boy from District 2. He stood at the back of the cage, arms folded 
across his colossal frame, staring down his mentor. 

Sejanus pulled one final sandwich from the backpack and held it 
out to him. “Marcus, this is for you. Take it. Please.” But Marcus 
remained stone-faced and immobile. “Please, Marcus,” Sejanus, 
pleaded. “You must be starving.” Marcus looked Sejanus up and 
down, then pointedly turned his back on him. 

Lucy Gray watched the standoff with interest. “What’s going on 
there?” 

“What do you mean?” Coriolanus asked. 

“T don’t know exactly,” she said. “But it feels personal.” 

The tiny boy who’d wanted to murder Coriolanus in the truck 
sprinted up and snatched the unclaimed sandwich. Sejanus made no 
move to stop him. The news team tried to engage Sejanus, but he 
brushed them off and disappeared into the crowd, the limp pack over 
his shoulder. They shot a bit more of the tributes, then headed toward 
Lucy Gray and Coriolanus, who sat up straighter and ran his tongue 
over his teeth to clean off the meat loaf. 

“We're here at the zoo with Coriolanus Snow and his tribute, Lucy 


Gray Baird. Another student just passed out sandwiches. Is he a 


mentor?” Lepidus thrust the mic at them for an answer. 

Coriolanus didn’t like sharing the spotlight, but Sejanus’s presence 
could protect him. Would Dean Highbottom give a demerit to the son 
of the man who had rebuilt the Academy? A few days ago he 
would’ve thought the name Snow carried more weight than Plinth, 
but the reaping assignments had proven him wrong. If Dean 
Highbottom wanted to call him on the carpet, he’d prefer to have 
Sejanus by his side. 

“He’s my classmate, Sejanus Plinth,” he informed Lepidus. 

“What’s he up to, bringing fancy sandwiches to the tributes? 
Surely, the Capitol feeds them,” said the reporter. 

“Oh, for the record, I last ate the night before the reaping,” Lucy 
Gray announced. “So I guess it’s been three days.” 

“Oh. Okay, well, you enjoy that sandwich!” said Lepidus. He 
signaled the camera to turn back to the other tributes. 

Lucy Gray was on her feet in a flash, leaning into the bars and 
pulling back the focus. “You know, Mr. Reporter, what might be nice? 
If anybody has any food to spare, they might bring it on down to the 
zoo. No fun watching the Games if we’re all too weak to fight, don’t 
you think?” 

“There’s some truth to that,” said the reporter, unsure. 

“Me, I like sweet things, but I’m not picky.” She smiled and bit 
into her plum. 

“Okay. Okay, then,” he said, easing away. 


Coriolanus could tell the reporter was on shaky ground. Should he 


really be helping her solicit the citizens for food? Did it seem a 
condemnation of the Capitol? 

As the news team moved to the other tributes, Lucy Gray settled 
back down across from him. “Too much?” 

“Not for me. I’m sorry I didn’t think to bring you food,” he said. 

“Well, ’ve been working my way through these rose petals when 
nobody’s looking.” She shrugged. “You didn’t know.” 

They finished their food in silence, watching the reporter’s failed 
attempts at getting the other tributes to talk. The sun had set now, 
and a rising moon had taken over the lighting. The zoo would be 
closing soon. 

“T was thinking that it might be a good idea for you to sing again,” 
said Coriolanus. 

Lucy Gray sucked the last bit of flesh off the plum pit. “Mm-hmm, 
it might be, at that.” She dabbed the corners of her mouth with a 
ruffle and then straightened her skirt. Her usual playful tone shifted to 
a sober one. “So, as my mentor, what do you get out of this? You’re at 
school, right? So you get what? A better grade the more I shine?” 

“Maybe.” He felt embarrassed. Here, in the relative privacy of the 
corner, he realized for the first time that she would be dead in a few 
days. Well, of course, he’d always known that. But he had thought 
about her more as his contender. His filly in a race, his dog in a fight. 
The more he had treated her as something special, the more she’d 
become human. As Sejanus had told the little girl, Lucy Gray was not 


really an animal, even if she was not Capitol. And he was here doing 


what? Showboating, like Dean Highbottom had said? 

“T don’t even know what I get, really,” he told her. “They’ve never 
had mentors before. You don’t have to. Sing, I mean.” 

“I know,” she said. 

He still wanted her to, though. “But if people like you, they might 
bring you more food. We don’t have much extra at home.” 

His cheeks burned in the dark. Why on earth had he admitted that 
to her? 

“No? I always thought you had plenty to spare in the Capitol,” she 
said. 

Idiot, he said to himself. But then he met her gaze and realized 
that, for the first time, she looked genuinely interested in him. “Oh, 
no. Especially not during the war. One time I ate half a jar of paste 
just to stop the pains in my stomach.” 

“Yeah? How was it?” she asked. 

That threw him, and he surprised himself by laughing. “Really 
sticky.” 

Lucy Gray grinned. “Pll bet. Still, sounds better than some of the 
stuff I made do with. Not to make this a competition.” 

“Of course not.” He grinned back. “Look, I’m sorry. Fl find you 
some food. You shouldn’t have to perform for it.” 

“Well, this wouldn’t be the first time I sang for my supper. Not by 
a long shot,” she said. “And I do so love to sing.” 

A voice came over the speaker to announce the zoo was closing in 


fifteen minutes. 


“I ought to be going. But Ill see you tomorrow?” he asked. 

“You know where to find me,” she said. 

Coriolanus rose and brushed off his pants. He shook out the 
handkerchief, folded it, and passed it through the bars to her. “It’s 
clean,” he assured her. At least she’d have something to dry her face 
with. 

“Thanks. I left mine at home,” she replied. 

Lucy Gray’s mention of home hung in the air between them. A 
reminder of a door she’d never reopen, loved ones she’d never see 
again. He couldn’t stand the thought of being torn from his own 
home. The apartment was the one place he unquestioningly belonged, 
his safe harbor, his family’s stronghold. Since he didn’t know how else 
to respond, he simply nodded good night. 

Coriolanus had not gone twenty paces when he was stopped by the 
sound of his tribute’s voice, singing sweet and clear through the night 


air. 


Down in the valley, valley so low, 
Late in the evening, hear the train blow. 
The train, love, hear the train blow. 


Late in the evening, hear the train blow. 


The audience, which had been trailing out, turned to listen to her. 


Go build me a mansion, build it so high, 


So I can see my true love go by. 


See him go by, love, see him go by. 


So I can see my true love go by. 


Everyone had hushed now — the audience, the tributes. There was 
just Lucy Gray and the whir of the camera closing in on her. She still 


sat in their corner, her head leaning against the bars. 


Go write me a letter, send it by mail. 
Bake it and stamp it to the Capitol jail. 
Capitol jail, love, to the Capitol jail. 


Bake it and stamp it to the Capitol jail. 


She sounded so sad, so lost... . 


Roses are red, love; violets are blue. 
Birds in the heavens know I love you. 
Know I love you, oh, know I love you, 


Birds in the heavens know I love you. 


Coriolanus stood transfixed by the music and the rush of memories 
that accompanied it. His mother used to sing him a song at bedtime. 
Not this one, exactly, but it had used those same words, roses are red 
and violets are blue. It had mentioned loving him. He thought of the 
photo in the silver frame he kept on the nightstand by his bed. His 
beautiful mother, holding him when he was about two. They were 
looking at each other, laughing. Try as he might, he could never 


remember the moment the picture was taken, but this song caressed 


his brain, calling her from the depths. He could sense her presence, 
almost smell the delicate scent of the rose powder she wore, and feel 
the warm blanket of security that had enveloped him each night. 
Before she died. Before that awful stretch of days a few months into 
the war, when the first major rebel air raid had immobilized the city. 
When she went into labor, and they were unable to get her to the 
hospital, and something had gone wrong. Hemorrhage, maybe? A 
great deal of blood soaking the sheets and Cook and the Grandma’am 
trying to stop it and Tigris dragging him from the room. Then she was 
gone, and the baby — who would’ve been his sister — she was gone, 
too. The death of his father came right on the heels of his mother’s, 
but that loss had not hollowed out the world in the same way. 
Coriolanus still kept his mother’s compact in a drawer in his 
nightstand. In difficult times, when he had trouble falling asleep, he 
would click it open and inhale the rose scent of the silken cake of 
powder within. It never failed to calm him with the memory of how it 
had felt to be loved like that. 

Bombs and blood. That was how the rebels had killed his mother. 
He wondered if they had killed Lucy Gray’s, too. “Just her pearly white 
bones.” She seemed to have no love for District 12, always separating 
herself from it, saying she was, what was it . . . Covey? 

“Thanks for stepping up.” Sejanus’s voice startled him. He had 
been sitting a few feet back, concealed by one of the boulders, 
listening to the song. 


Coriolanus cleared his throat. “It was nothing.” 


“I doubt any of our other classmates would’ve helped me,” Sejanus 
pointed out. 

“None of our other classmates have even made an appearance,” 
Coriolanus replied. “That already sets us apart. What made you think 
of feeding the tributes?” 

Sejanus looked down at the empty backpack by his feet. “Ever 
since the reaping, I keep imagining I’m one of them.” 

Coriolanus almost laughed before he realized Sejanus was serious. 
“That seems like an odd pastime.” 

“Can’t help it.” Sejanus’s voice dropped so low, Coriolanus had to 
strain to hear it. “They read my name. I walk to the stage. Now 
they’ve cuffed me. Now they’re hitting me for no reason. Now I’m on 
the train, in the dark, starving, alone except for kids I’m supposed to 
kill. Now I’m on display, with all these strangers bringing their 
children to stare at me through the bars... .” 

The sound of rusty wheels turning drew their attention to the 
monkey house. A dozen or so bales of hay came bursting out of the 
chute and rolled into a heap on the cage floor. 

“Look, that must be my bed,” said Sejanus. 

“It isn’t going to happen to you, Sejanus,” Coriolanus told him. 

“It could’ve, though. Easily. If we weren’t so rich now,” he said. “I 
would be back in District Two, maybe still in school or maybe in the 
mines, but definitely in the reaping. You saw my tribute?” 

“He’s hard to miss,” admitted Coriolanus. “I think there’s a good 


chance he’ll win.” 


“He was my classmate. You know, before I came here. Back home. 
His name’s Marcus,” Sejanus continued. “Not a friend exactly. But 
certainly not an enemy. One day I caught my finger in the door, 
smashed it good, and he scooped a cup of snow off the windowsill to 
bring down the swelling. Didn’t even ask the teacher, just did it.” 

“Do you think he even remembers you?” said Coriolanus. “You 
were little. And a lot has happened since then.” 

“Oh, he remembers me. The Plinths are notorious back home.” 
Sejanus looked pained. “Notorious and deeply despised.” 

“And now you're his mentor,” said Coriolanus. 

“And now I’m his mentor,” Sejanus echoed. 

The lights in the monkey house dimmed. A few of the tributes 
moved about, making nests of hay for the night. Coriolanus spotted 
Marcus drinking from the spigot, splashing water over his head. When 
he rose and crossed to the bales of hay, he dwarfed the others. 

Sejanus gave the backpack a little kick. “He wouldn’t take a 
sandwich from me. He’d rather go into the Games starving than take 
food from my hand.” 

“That’s not your fault,” said Coriolanus. 

“I know. I know. I’m so blameless I’m choking on it,” said Sejanus. 

Coriolanus was trying to unravel that thought when a fight broke 
out in the cage. Two boys had claimed the same bale of hay and had 
come to blows over it. Marcus intervened and, grabbing each by the 
collar, tossed them apart like a pair of rag dolls. They flew in the air, 


traveling several yards before landing in awkward heaps. As they 


slunk into the shadows, Marcus took the bale for his own bed, 
unimpressed by the scuffle. 

“He'll still win,” said Coriolanus. If he’d had any doubts, Marcus’s 
display of superior power had silenced them. He again felt the 
bitterness of a Plinth being granted the mightiest tribute. And he was 
tired of Sejanus’s whining over his father’s buying him the victor. 
“Any one of us would’ve been happy to get him.” 

Sejanus brightened a bit. “Really? Then take him. He’s yours.” 

“Yow’re not serious,” said Coriolanus. 

“A hundred percent.” Sejanus sprang to his feet. “I want you to 
have him! And PII take Lucy Gray. It will still be horrible, but at least 
I don’t know her. I know the crowd likes her, but what good will that 
do her in the arena? There’s no way she’ll beat him. Trade tributes 
with me. Win the Games. Take the glory. Please, Coriolanus, I would 
never forget the favor.” 

For a moment, Coriolanus could taste it — the sweetness of the 
victory, the cheers of the crowd. If he could make Lucy Gray a 
favorite, imagine what he could do with a powerhouse like Marcus! 
And really, what chance did she have? His eyes traveled to Lucy Gray 
leaning against the bars like a trapped animal. In the shadowy light, 
her color, her specialness, had faded, making her just another drab, 
bruised creature. Not much of a match for the other girls, even less so 
for the boys. The idea of her defeating Marcus was laughable. Like 
pitting a songbird against a grizzly bear. 


His mouth was forming the word done, when he stopped. 


To win with Marcus was no win at all. It took no brains, or skill, 
or even particular luck. To win with Lucy Gray would be an incredible 
long shot but historic if he pulled it off. Besides, was winning even the 
point? Or was it to engage the audience? Thanks to him, Lucy Gray 
was the current star of the Games, the most memorable tribute no 
matter who won. He thought of their hands locked together in the zoo 
as they took on the world. They were a team. She trusted him. He 
couldn’t imagine telling her he’d dumped her for Marcus. Or, even 
worse, telling the audience. 

In addition, what guarantee did he have that Marcus would 
respond to him any more than he did to Sejanus? He seemed like just 
the kind to stonewall the lot of them. And then Coriolanus would look 
like a fool, begging for a crumb of attention from Marcus while Lucy 
Gray did pirouettes around Sejanus. 

There was one more consideration. He had something Sejanus 
Plinth wanted, and wanted badly. Sejanus had already usurped his 
position, his inheritance, his clothes, his candy, his sandwiches, and 
the privilege due a Snow. Now he was coming for his apartment, his 
spot at the University, his very future, and had the gall to be resentful 
of his good fortune. To reject it. To consider it a punishment, even. If 
having Marcus as a tribute made Sejanus squirm, then good. Let him 
squirm. Lucy Gray was one thing belonging to Coriolanus that he 
would never, ever get. 


“Sorry, my friend,” he said mildly. “But I think Pll keep her.” 


> 


Coriolanus relished the disappointment on Sejanus’s face, but not 
for long, because that would’ve been petty. “Look, Sejanus, you may 
not think so, but this is me doing you a favor. Think about it. What 
would your father say if he found out you’d traded the tribute he’d 
lobbied for?” 

“T don’t care,” said Sejanus, but it didn’t sound convincing. 

“All right, forget about your father. What about the Academy?” he 
asked. “I doubt trading tributes is allowed. I’ve already been slapped 
with one demerit just for meeting Lucy Gray early. What if I tried to 
trade her? Besides, the poor thing is already attached to me. Dumping 
her would be like kicking a kitten. I don’t think I’d have the heart.” 

“I shouldn’t have asked. I never even considered I might be 
making things difficult for you. I’m sorry. It’s just . . .” Sejanus’s words 
began to spill out. “It’s just this whole Hunger Games thing is making 
me crazy! I mean, what are we doing? Putting kids in an arena to kill 
each other? It feels wrong on so many levels. Animals protect their 


young, right? And so do we. We try to protect children! It’s built into 


us as human beings. Who really wants to do this? It’s unnatural!” 

“Its not pretty,” Coriolanus agreed, glancing around. 

“Its evil. It goes against everything I think is right in the world. I 
can’t be a part of it. Especially not with Marcus. I have to get out of it 
somehow,” Sejanus said, his eyes filling with tears. 

His distress made Coriolanus uncomfortable, especially when he 
valued his own chance to participate so highly. “You could always ask 
another mentor. I don’t think you’d have a problem finding a taker.” 

“No. ’m not handing Marcus over to anyone else. You’re the only 
one Id trust with him.” Sejanus turned to the cage, where the tributes 
had settled down for the night. “Oh, what does it matter anyway? If 
it’s not Marcus, it will be someone else. It might be easier, but it still 
won't be right.” He collected his backpack. “I better get home. That’s 
sure to be pleasant.” 

“I don’t think you’ve broken any rules,” said Coriolanus. 

“T’ve publicly aligned myself with the districts. In my father’s eyes, 
I’ve broken the only rule that matters.” Sejanus gave him a small 
smile. “Thanks again, though, for helping me out.” 

“Thank you for the sandwich,” said Coriolanus. “It was delicious.” 

“Tl tell Ma you said so,” said Sejanus. “It’ll make her night.” 

Coriolanus’s own return home was somewhat marred by the 
Grandma’am’s disapproval of his picnic with Lucy Gray. 

“To feed her is one thing,” she said. “To dine with her suggests 
that you consider her your equal. But she isn’t. There’s always been 


something barbaric about the districts. Your own father used to say 


those people only drank water because it didn’t rain blood. You ignore 
that at your own peril, Coriolanus.” 

“She’s just a girl, Grandma’am,” Tigris said. 

“She’s district. And trust me, that one hasn’t been a girl in a long 
time,” the Grandma’am replied. 

Coriolanus thought uneasily of the tributes on the truck debating 
whether or not to kill him. They’d certainly demonstrated a taste for 
his blood. Only Lucy Gray had objected. 

“Lucy Gray is different,” he argued. “She took my side in the truck 
when the others wanted to attack me. And she had my back in the 
monkey house, too.” 

The Grandma’am held her ground. “Would she have bothered if 
you weren’t her mentor? Of course not. She’s a wily little thing who 
began to manipulate you the minute you met. Tread carefully, my 
boy — that’s all I’m saying.” 

Coriolanus didn’t bother arguing, as the Grandma’am always took 
the worst view of anything she deemed district. He went straight to 
bed, dropping with fatigue, but couldn’t quiet his mind. He took his 
mother’s powder compact from the drawer of his nightstand and ran 


his fingers over the rose engraved on the heavy silver case. 


Roses are red, love; violets are blue. 


Birds in the heavens know I love you. . . . 


When he clicked the latch, the lid opened and the floral scent 


wafted out. In the shadowy light from the Corso, his pale blue eyes 


reflected back from the round, slightly distorted mirror. “Just like 
your father’s,” the Grandma’am frequently reminded him. He wished 
he had his mother’s eyes instead, but never said so. Maybe it was best 
to take after his father. His mother had not really been tough enough 
for this world. He finally drifted off, thinking of her, but it was Lucy 
Gray, spinning in her rainbow dress, who sang in his dreams. 

In the morning, Coriolanus awoke to a delicious smell. He went to 
the kitchen and found that Tigris had been baking since before dawn. 

He gave her shoulder a squeeze. “Tigris, you need to get more 
sleep.” 

“T couldn’t sleep, thinking about what’s going on at the zoo,” she 
said. “Some of the kids look so young this year. Or maybe I’m just 
getting older.” 

“It’s disturbing to see them locked up in that cage,” Coriolanus 
admitted. 

“It was disturbing to see you there as well!” she said, pulling on an 
oven mitt and taking a pan of bread pudding from the oven. “Fabricia 
told me to throw out the stale bread from the party, but I thought, 
why waste it?” 

Hot from the oven, drizzled in corn syrup, bread pudding was one 
of his favorites. “It looks amazing,” he told Tigris. 

“And there’s plenty, so you can take a piece to Lucy Gray. She said 
she liked sweet things — and I doubt there are many left in her 
future!” Tigris set the pan on the oven with a bang. “Sorry. Didn’t 


mean to do that. I don’t know what’s gotten into me. I’m wound up 


tight as a spring.” 

Coriolanus touched her arm. “It’s the Games. You know I have to 
do the mentorship, right? If I’m to stand a chance at getting a prize. I 
need to win that for all of us.” 

“Of course, Coryo. Of course. And we’re so proud of you and how 
well you’re doing.” She cut a large slice of the bread pudding and slid 
it onto a plate. “Now eat up. You don’t want to be late.” 

At the Academy, Coriolanus felt his apprehension melt away as he 
basked in the response to his recklessness the previous day. With the 
exception of Livia Cardew, who made it clear she thought he had 
cheated and should be dismissed as a mentor immediately, his 
classmates congratulated him. If his professors were not so openly 
supportive, he still received several smiles and subtle pats on the 
back. 

Satyria took him aside after homeroom. “Well done. You’ve 
pleased Dr. Gaul, and that’s won you some points with the faculty. 
She’ll give a good report to President Ravinstill, and that will reflect 
well on all of us. Only, you need to be careful. You were lucky how it 
played out. What if those brats had attacked you in the cage? The 
Peacekeepers would have been bound to rescue you, and there 
could’ve been casualties on both sides. Things might’ve been quite 
different if you hadn’t landed your little rainbow girl.” 

“Which is why I turned down Sejanus’s offer to trade tributes,” he 
said. 


Satyria’s mouth dropped open. “No! Imagine what Strabo Plinth 


would say if that went public.” 

“Imagine what he owes me if it doesn’t!” The thought of 
blackmailing old Strabo Plinth had definite appeal. 

She laughed. “Spoken like a Snow. Now get to class. We need the 
rest of your record spotless if you’re going to go racking up demerits.” 

The twenty-four mentors spent the morning in a seminar led by 
Professor Crispus Demigloss, their excitable old history professor. The 
class brainstormed ideas — beyond the addition of mentors — to get 
people to watch the Hunger Games. “Show me I haven’t been wasting 
my time with you for four years,” he said with a titter. “If history 
teaches you anything, it’s how to make the unwilling comply.” 
Sejanus’s hand went up directly. “Ah, Sejanus?” 

“Before we talk about making people watch, shouldn’t we begin 
with the question of whether or not watching is the right thing to 
do?” he said. 

“Let’s stay on topic, please.” Professor Demigloss scanned the 
room for a more productive answer. “How do we get people to 
watch?” 

Festus Creed raised his hand. Bigger and burlier than most his age, 
he’d been one of Coriolanus’s inner circle since birth. His family was 
old Capitol money. Their fortune, largely in District 7 timber, had 
taken a hit during the war but had rebounded nicely during the 
reconstruction. His scoring the District 4 girl reflected his status quite 
accurately. High, but not stellar. 


“Enlighten us, Festus,” said Professor Demigloss. 


“Simple. We go straight to the punitive,” Festus answered. 
“Instead of suggesting people watch, make it the law.” 

“What happens if you don’t watch?” asked Clemensia, not 
bothering to raise her hand or even look up from her notes. She was 
popular with both students and faculty, and her niceness excused a 
lot. 

“In the districts, we execute you. In the Capitol, we make you 
move to the districts, and if you mess up again next year, then we 
execute you,” Festus said cheerfully. 

The class laughed, then began to give it serious thought. How 
could you enforce it? You couldn’t send the Peacekeepers door-to- 
door. Perhaps some random sampling where you needed to be 
prepared to answer questions that proved you’d watched the Games. 
And if you hadn’t, what would an appropriate punishment be? Not 
execution or banishment — those were too extreme. Maybe some loss 
of privilege in the Capitol, and a public whipping in the districts? That 
would make the punishment personal to all. 

“The real problem is, it’s sickening to watch,” said Clemensia. “So 
people avoid it.” 

Sejanus jumped in. “Of course they do! Who wants to watch a 
group of children kill each other? Only a vicious, twisted person. 
Human beings may not be perfect, but we’re better than that.” 

“How do you know?” said Livia snippishly. “And how does 
someone from the districts have any idea what we want to watch in 


the Capitol? You weren’t even here during the war.” 


Sejanus fell silent, unable to deny it. 

“Because most of us are basically decent people,” said Lysistrata 
Vickers, folding her hands neatly on her notebook. Everything about 
her was neat. From her carefully braided hair to her evenly filed nails 
to the crisp, white cuffs of her uniform blouse setting off her smooth, 
brown skin. “Most of us don’t want to watch other people suffer.” 

“We watched worse things during the war. And after,” Coriolanus 
reminded her. There had been some bloody stuff broadcast over the 
airwaves during the Dark Days, and many a brutal execution after the 
Treaty of Treason had been signed. 

“But we had a real stake in that, Coryo!” said Arachne Crane, 
giving him a sock on the arm from the seat to his right. Always so 
loud. Always socking people. The Cranes’ apartment faced the Snows’, 
and sometimes even from across the Corso, he could hear her 
bellowing at night. “We were watching our enemies die! I mean, rebel 
scum and whatnot. Who cares about these kids one way or another?” 

“Possibly their families,” said Sejanus. 

“You mean a handful of nobodies in the districts. So what?” 
Arachne boomed. “Why should the rest of us care which one of them 
wins?” 

Livia looked pointedly at Sejanus. “I know I don’t.” 

“T get more excited over a dogfight,” admitted Festus. “Especially 
if I’m betting on it.” 

“So you'd like it if we gave odds on the tributes?” Coriolanus 


joked. “That would make you tune in?” 


“Well, it would certainly liven things up!” Festus exclaimed. 

A few people chuckled, but then the class went quiet as they 
mulled over the idea. 

“Its gruesome,” said Clemensia, twisting her hair around her 
finger thoughtfully. “Did you mean it for real? You think we should 
have betting on who wins?” 

“Not really,” Coriolanus said, then cocked his head. “On the other 
hand, if it’s a success, then absolutely, Clemmie. I want to go down in 
history as the one who brought gambling to the Games!” 

Clemensia shook her head in exasperation. But as he walked to 
lunch, Coriolanus couldn’t help thinking that the idea had some merit. 

The dining hall cooks were still working with the reaping buffet 
leftovers, and the creamed ham on toast had to be the high point of 
the school lunch year. Coriolanus savored every bite, unlike at the 
original buffet, when he’d been so distraught over Dean Highbottom’s 
threatening manner that he’d barely tasted a thing. 

The mentors had been instructed to gather on the balcony of 
Heavensbee Hall after lunch, ahead of their first official meetings with 
their tributes. Each mentor had been given a brief questionnaire to 
complete with their assignee, partly as an icebreaker, and partly as a 
matter of record. Very little information had been archived on 
previous tributes, and this was an effort to correct that. Many of his 
classmates had difficulty hiding their nerves as they headed over, 
talking and joking a little too loudly, but Coriolanus had gotten a leg 


up by meeting Lucy Gray twice already. He felt completely at ease, 


even eager to see her again. To thank her for the song. To give her 
Tigris’s bread pudding. To strategize over their interview. 

The chatter died away as the mentors pushed through the 
swinging balcony doors and caught sight of what awaited them below. 
All signs of the reaping festivities had been stripped away, leaving the 
vast hall cold and imposing. Twenty-four small tables flanked with 
two folding chairs each were spread out in orderly rows. Each table 
bore a sign with a district number followed by a B or a G and next to 
it sat a concrete block with a metal ring on the top. 

Before the students could discuss the layout, two Peacekeepers 
entered and stood guard by the main entrance and the tributes were 
brought in single file. The Peacekeepers outnumbered them two to 
one, but it was unlikely that any of the tributes could make a break 
for it, given the heavy shackles attached to their wrists and ankles. 
The tributes were led to the tables corresponding to their district and 
sex, directed to sit, and then chained to the concrete weights. 

Some of the tributes drooped in their seats, chins almost on their 
chests, but the more defiant ones tilted their heads back and surveyed 
the hall. It was one of the most impressive chambers in the Capitol, 
and several mouths gaped open, awed by the grandeur of the marble 
columns, the arched windows, the vaulted ceiling. Coriolanus thought 
it must be a marvel to them, compared to the flat, ugly structures that 
were the signature style in many of the districts. As the tributes’ eyes 
traveled around the room, they eventually made their way to the 


mentors’ balcony, and the two groups found themselves locked in one 


another’s gazes for a long, raw moment. 

When Professor Sickle banged the door behind them, the mentors 
gave a collective jump. “Stop eyeballing your tributes and get down 
there,” she ordered. “You only have fifteen minutes, so use them 
wisely. And remember, complete the paperwork for our records as 
best you can.” 

Coriolanus led the way down the steps that spiraled into the hall. 
When his eyes met Lucy Gray’s, he could tell she’d been looking for 
him. Seeing her in chains disquieted him, but he gave her a reassuring 
smile, and some of the worry left her face. 

Sliding into the seat across from her, he frowned at her shackled 
hands and gestured to the nearest Peacekeeper. “Excuse me, would it 
be possible to have these removed?” 

The Peacekeeper did him the favor of checking with the officer at 
the door but then gave him a sharp shake of the head. 

“Thanks for trying, just the same,” said Lucy Gray. She’d braided 
back her hair in a pretty fashion, but her face looked sad and tired, 
and the bruise still marred her cheek. She noticed him looking and 
touched it. “Is it hideous?” 

“Tt’s just healing,” he said. 

“We don’t have a mirror, so I can only imagine.” She didn’t bother 
to put on her sparkly camera personality for him, and in a way he was 
glad. Maybe she was beginning to trust him. 

“How are you?” he asked. 


“Sleepy. Scared. Hungry,” said Lucy Gray. “Only a couple people 


came by the zoo this morning to feed us. I got an apple, which was 
more than most but not exactly filling.” 

“Well, I can help a bit with that.” He pulled Tigris’s packet from 
his book bag. 

Lucy Gray brightened some and carefully unwrapped the waxed 
paper to reveal the big square of bread pudding. Suddenly, her eyes 
filled with tears. 

“Oh, no. You don’t like it?” he exclaimed. “I can try and bring 
something else. I can —” 

Lucy Gray shook her head. “It’s my favorite.” She swallowed hard, 
broke off a bit, and slipped it between her lips. 

“Mine, too. My cousin Tigris made it this morning, so it should be 
fresh,” he said. 

“It’s perfect. It tastes just like my mama’s did. Please tell Tigris I 
said thank you.” She took another bite, but she was still fighting tears. 

Coriolanus felt a twinge inside him. He wanted to reach out and 
touch her face, to tell her that things were going to be all right. But, 
of course, they weren’t. Not for her. He fumbled in his back pocket for 
a handkerchief and offered it to her. 

“T still have the one from last night.” She reached for her pocket. 

“We’ve got drawers full,” he said. “Take it.” 

Lucy Gray did, dabbing her eyes and wiping her nose. Then she 
took a deep breath and straightened up. “So, what’s our plan today?” 

“Pm supposed to fill out this questionnaire about your 


background. Do you mind?” He pulled out the single sheet of paper. 


“Not a bit. I love talking about myself,” she said. 

The page began with basic stuff. Name, district address, date of 
birth, hair and eye colors, height and weight, and any disability. 
Things got more difficult with family makeup. Both Lucy Gray’s 
parents and her two older siblings were dead. 

“Is your whole family gone?” asked Coriolanus. 

“T have a couple of cousins. And the rest of the Covey.” She leaned 
in to check the paper. “Is there a space for them?” 

There wasn’t. But there should be, he thought, given how 
fractured families were by the war. There should be a place for 
anyone who cared for you at all. In fact, maybe that should be the 
question to start with: Who cares about you? Or even better, Who can 
you count on? 

“Married?” He laughed, then remembered they married young in 
some of the districts. How did he know? Maybe she had a husband 
back in 12. 

“Why? Are you asking?” said Lucy Gray seriously. He looked up in 
surprise. “Because I think this could work.” 

Coriolanus felt himself blush a little at her teasing. “I’m pretty sure 
you could do better.” 

“Haven’t yet.” A flicker of pain crossed her face, but she hid it 
with a smile. “I bet you’ve got sweethearts lined up around the block.” 

Her flirtation left Coriolanus tongue-tied. Where were they? He 
checked the paper. Oh, yes. Her family. “Who raised you? After you 


lost your parents, I mean.” 


“An old man took us in for a fee — the six Covey kids who were 
left. He didn’t much raise us, but he didn’t mess with us either, so it 
could’ve been worse,” she said. “Really, I’m grateful. People weren’t 
excited about taking in six of us. He died last year of the black lung, 
but some of us are old enough to manage things now.” 

They moved on to occupation. At sixteen, Lucy Gray wasn’t old 
enough for the mines, but she didn’t attend school either. “I make my 
living entertaining people.” 

“People pay you to... sing and dance?” asked Coriolanus. “I 
wouldn’t think district people could afford that.” 

“Most can’t,” she said. “Sometimes they pool their money, and two 
or three couples get married the same day, and they hire us. Me and 
the rest of the Covey, that is. What’s left of us. The Peacekeepers let us 
keep our instruments when they rounded us up. They’re some of our 
best customers.” 

Coriolanus remembered how they’d tried not to smile at the 
reaping, how no one had interfered with her singing and dancing. He 
made a note of her employment, finishing the form, but he had plenty 
of questions of his own. “Tell me about the Covey. What side did you 
take in the war?” 

“Neither. My people didn’t take a side. We’re just us.” Something 
behind him captured her attention. “What’s your friend’s name again? 
The one with the sandwiches? I think he’s having trouble.” 

“Sejanus?” He looked over his shoulder and back through the rows 


to where Sejanus sat across from Marcus. An untouched meal of roast 


beef sandwiches and cake languished between them. Sejanus was 
speaking entreatingly, but Marcus just stared fixedly ahead, his arms 
crossed, his whole being unresponsive. 

Around the room the other tributes were in various stages of 
engagement. Several had covered their faces and were refusing to 
communicate. A few were crying. Some warily answered questions, 
but even they looked hostile. 

“Five minutes,” Professor Sickle announced. 

That reminded Coriolanus of another five minutes they needed to 
address. “So, the night before the Games begin, we’re going to get a 
five-minute interview on television in which we can do whatever we 
want. I thought you might sing again.” 

Lucy Gray considered it. “I’m not sure there’s a point to it. I mean, 
when I sang that song at the reaping, that didn’t have anything to do 
with you all here. I didn’t plan it. It’s just part of a long, sad tale that 
nobody but me gives a hoot about.” 

“Tt hit a nerve with people,” Coriolanus observed. 

“And the valley song was, like you told me, maybe a way to get 
food,” she said. 

“Tt was beautiful,” he said. “It made me feel like when my 
mother ... She died when I was five. It made me remember a song 
she used to sing to me.” 

“What about your daddy?” she asked. 

“Lost him, too, actually. The same year,” Coriolanus told her. 


She nodded sympathetically. “So, you’re an orphan, like me.” 


Coriolanus didn’t like being called that. Livia had taunted him 
about his parentless state when he was small, making him feel alone 
and unwanted when he was neither. Still, there was that emptiness 
that most other kids didn’t really understand. But Lucy Gray did, 
being an orphan herself. “It could be worse. I have the Grandma’am. 
That’s my grandmother. And Tigris.” 

“Do you miss your parents?” Lucy Gray asked. 

“Oh, I wasn’t that close with my father. My mother... sure.” It 
was still hard to talk about her. “Do you?” 

“A lot. Both of them. Wearing my mama’s dress is the only thing 
keeping me together right now.” She ran her fingers down the ruffles. 
“It’s like she’s wrapping her arms around me.” 

Coriolanus thought of his mother’s compact. The scented powder. 
“My mother always smelled like roses,” he said, and then felt 
awkward. He rarely mentioned his mother, even at home. How had 
the conversation gotten here? “Anyway, I think your song moved a lot 
of people.” 

“That’s nice of you to say. Thank you. But it’s not really a reason 
to sing in the interview,” she said. “If it’s the night before, we can rule 
food out. I’ve got no reason to win over anybody at that point.” 

Coriolanus tried hard to think of a reason, but this time her 
singing would only benefit him. “It’s a shame, though. With your 
voice.” 

“Tl sing you a few bars backstage,” she promised. 


He would have to work to persuade her, but for the moment, he 


let it drop. Instead he let her interview him for a few minutes, 
answering more questions about his family and how they’d survived 
the war. He found her easy to tell things to, somehow. Was it because 
he knew that all he recounted would vanish in the arena in a few 
days? 

Lucy Gray seemed in better spirits; there had been no more tears. 
As they’d shared their stories, a sense of familiarity had begun to 
grow between them. When the whistle blew to signal the end of the 
session, she tucked his handkerchief neatly back into the pocket of his 
book bag and gave his forearm a squeeze of thanks. 

The mentors headed obediently to the main exit, where Professor 
Sickle instructed them, “You’re to go to the high biology lab for a 
debriefing.” 

No one questioned her, but in the halls they wondered aloud about 
the reason. Coriolanus was hoping it meant Dr. Gaul would be there. 
His neatly completed questionnaire was in stark contrast to the spotty 
efforts of his classmates, and this could be another moment for him to 
stand out. 

“Mine wouldn’t speak. Not a word!” said Clemensia. “All I’ve got is 
what I had after the reaping. His name. Reaper Ash. Can you imagine 
naming your child Reaper and them ending up in the reaping?” 

“There was no reaping when he was born,” Lysistrata pointed out. 
“That’s just a farming name.” 

“T guess that’s true,” said Clemensia. 


“Mine spoke. I almost wish she hadn’t!” Arachne practically 


yelled. 

“Why? What did she say?” asked Clemensia. 

“Oh, it seems she spends most of her time in District Ten 
butchering hogs.” Arachne made a gagging motion. “Yech. What am I 
supposed to do with that? I wish I could make up something better.” 
Suddenly, she stopped, causing Coriolanus and Festus to run into her. 
“Wait! That’s it!” 

“Watch it!” said Festus, pushing her forward. 

She ignored him and chattered on, demanding everyone’s 
attention. “I could make up something brilliant! I’ve visited District 
Ten, you know. It’s practically my second home!” Before the war, her 
family had developed luxury hotels in vacation destinations, and 
Arachne had traveled extensively in Panem. She still bragged about it, 
even though she’d been as Capitol-bound as anyone else since the 
war. “Anyway, I could come up with something better than the ups 
and downs of a slaughterhouse!” 

“You’re lucky,” said Pliny Harrington. Everybody called him Pup 
to differentiate him from his naval commander father, who watched 
over the waters off District 4. The commander had tried to mold him 
into his image, insisting Pup have a crew cut and shined shoes, but his 
son was a natural slob. He dug a piece of ham out of his braces with 
his thumbnail and flicked it to the floor. “At least she isn’t afraid of 
blood.” 

“Why? Is yours?” asked Arachne. 


“No idea. She cried for fifteen minutes straight.” Pup grimaced. “I 


don’t think District Seven prepared her for a hangnail, let alone the 
Games.” 

“You’d better button your jacket before class,” Lysistrata reminded 
him. 

“Oh, right,” Pup sighed. He worked the top button, and it came off 
in his hand. “Stupid uniform.” 

As they filed into the lab, Coriolanus’s pleasure at seeing Dr. Gaul 
again was dampened by the sight of Dean Highbottom stationed 
behind the professor’s table, collecting the questionnaires. He ignored 
Coriolanus, but then, he wasn’t particularly friendly to anyone else 
either. He left the talking to the Head Gamemaker. 

Dr. Gaul poked at the muttation rabbit until the class had settled 
in, then greeted them with “Hippity, hoppity, how did you fare? Did 
they greet you like friends or just sit there and stare?” The students 
shot confused glances at one another as she retrieved the 
questionnaires. “For those of you who don’t know, I’m Dr. Gaul, the 
Head Gamemaker, and I will be mentoring your mentorships. Let’s see 
what I have to work with, shall we?” She flipped through the papers, 
frowned, then pulled one out and held it up before the class. “This is 
what you were asked to do. Thank you, Mr. Snow. Now, what 
happened to the rest of you?” 

Inside he glowed, but he maintained a neutral expression. The best 
move now was to support his classmates. After a long pause, he spoke 
up. “I had good luck with my tribute. She’s a talker. But most of the 


kids wouldn’t communicate. And even my girl can’t see the point of 


making an effort at the interview.” 

Sejanus turned to Coriolanus. “Why should they? What does it get 
them? No matter what they do, they’ll be thrown into the arena and 
left to fend for themselves.” 

A murmur of assent came from the room. 

Dr. Gaul peered at Sejanus. “You’re the boy with the sandwiches. 
Why did you do it?” 

Sejanus stiffened and avoided her gaze. “They were starving. 
Were going to kill them; do we have to torture them ahead of time as 
well?” 

“Huh. A rebel sympathizer,” said Dr. Gaul. 

Keeping his eyes on his notebook, Sejanus persisted. “Hardly 
rebels. Some of them were two years old when the war ended. The 
oldest were eight. And now that the war’s over, they’re just citizens of 
Panem, aren’t they? Same as us? Isn’t that what the anthem says the 
Capitol does? ‘You give us light. You reunite’? It’s supposed to be 
everyone’s government, right?” 

“That’s the general idea. Go on,” Dr. Gaul encouraged him. 

“Well, then it should protect everyone,” said Sejanus. “That’s its 
number-one job! And I don’t see how making them fight to the death 
achieves that.” 

“Obviously, you don’t approve of the Hunger Games,” said Dr. 
Gaul. “That must be hard for a mentor. That must interfere with your 
assignment.” 


Sejanus paused for a moment. Then he sat up straight, seeming to 


steel himself, and looked her in the eye. “Perhaps you should replace 
me and assign someone more worthy.” 

There was an audible gasp from the classroom. 

“Not on your life, boy,” Dr. Gaul chuckled. “Compassion is the key 
to the Games. Empathy, the thing we lack. Right, Casca?” She glanced 
at Dean Highbottom, but he only fiddled with a pen. 

Sejanus’s face fell, but he didn’t argue back. Coriolanus felt he’d 
ceded the battle but could not believe he’d given up on the war. He 
was tougher than he looked, Sejanus Plinth. Imagine throwing a 
mentorship back in Dr. Gaul’s face. 

But the exchange only seemed to invigorate her. “Now, wouldn’t it 
be wonderful if everyone in the audience felt as passionately about 
the tributes as this young man here? That should be our goal.” 

“No,” said Dean Highbottom. 

“Yes! For them to really get involved!” continued Dr. Gaul. She 
struck her forehead. “You’ve given me a marvelous idea. A way to let 
people personally affect the outcome of the Games. Suppose we let the 
audience send the tributes food in the arena? Feed them, like your 
friend here did in the zoo. Would they feel more involved?” 

Festus perked up. “I would if I could bet on the one I was feeding! 
Just this morning, Coriolanus said maybe we should give odds on the 
tributes.” 

Dr. Gaul beamed at Coriolanus. “Of course, he did. All right, then, 
you all put your heads together and figure it out. Write me a proposal 


on how this could work, and my team will consider it.” 


“Consider it?” asked Livia. “You mean you might actually use our 
ideas?” 

“Why not? If they have merit.” Dr. Gaul tossed the stack of 
questionnaires onto the table. “What young brains lack in experience 
they sometimes make up for in idealism. Nothing seems impossible to 
them. Old Casca over there came up with the concept for the Hunger 
Games when he was my student at the University, just a few years 
older than you are now.” 

All eyes turned to Dean Highbottom, who addressed Dr. Gaul. “It 
was just theoretical.” 

“And so is this, unless it proves useful,” said Dr. Gaul. “I’ll expect 
it on my desk tomorrow morning.” 

Coriolanus sighed inwardly. Another group project. Another 
opportunity to compromise his ideas in the name of collaboration. 
Either have them cut entirely or, worse, watered down until they had 
lost their bite. The class voted on a committee of three mentors to 
draw the thing up. Of course, he was elected, and he could hardly 
decline. Dr. Gaul had to leave for a meeting and directed the class to 
discuss the proposal among themselves. He and Clemensia and 
Arachne were to convene that evening, but since they all wanted to 
visit their tributes first, they agreed to meet at eight o’clock at the 
zoo. Later, they’d go to the library to write up the proposal. 

Since lunch had been substantial, he didn’t feel deprived by a 
dinner of yesterday’s cabbage soup and a plate of red beans. At least 


they weren’t lima. And when Tigris had scooped the last cupful into 


an elegant china bowl and garnished it with a few fresh herbs from 
the roof garden, it didn’t look too humble to offer to Lucy Gray. 
Presentation mattered to her. As for the beans, well, she was starving. 

Optimism flowed through him as he walked to the zoo. Morning 
attendance may have been scanty, but now visitors were pouring in so 
quickly he wasn’t sure he’d get a spot up front at the monkey house. 
His newfound status helped. As people recognized him, they allowed 
him to pass and even told others to clear a path. He was no common 
citizen — he was a mentor! 

He made straight for his corner, only to find the twins, Pollo and 
Didi Ring, camped out on his rock. The pair embraced their twinship 
wholeheartedly, sporting identical outfits, hair buns, and sunny 
personalities. They cleared out without Coriolanus having to ask. 

“You can take it, Coryo,” Didi said as she pulled her brother up 
from the rock. 

“Sure, we’ve already fed our tributes,” added Pollo. “Hey, sorry 
you got stuck with the proposal.” 

“Yeah, we voted for Pup, but no one backed us up!” They laughed 
and ran off into the crowd. 

Lucy Gray joined him immediately. Even though he wasn’t dining 
with her, she devoured the beans after admiring how fancy they 
looked. 

“Have you gotten any more food from the crowd?” he asked her. 

“I got an old cheese rind from a lady, and a couple other kids 


fought over some bread a man threw in. I can see all kinds of people 


holding food, but I think they’re afraid to get too close, even though 
they’ve got these Peacekeepers in here with us now.” She pointed to 
the back wall of the cage, where a quartet of Peacekeepers stood 
guard. “Maybe they'll feel safer now that you’re here.” 

Coriolanus noticed a boy of about ten hovering in the crowd, 
holding a boiled potato. He gave him a wink and a wave of the hand. 
The boy looked up at his father, who nodded approval. He moved up 
behind Coriolanus, still keeping his distance. “Did you bring that 
potato for Lucy Gray?” Coriolanus asked. 

“Yes. I saved it from dinner. I wanted to eat it, but I wanted to 
feed her more,” he said. 

“Go on, then,” Coriolanus encouraged him. “She doesn’t bite. Mind 
you, use your manners.” 

The boy took a shy step in her direction. “Well, hey there,” said 
Lucy Gray. “What’s your name?” 

“Horace,” said the boy. “I saved you my potato.” 

“Aren’t you sweet? Should I eat it now or save it?” she asked. 

“Now.” The boy gingerly held it out to her. 

Lucy Gray took the potato as though it were a diamond. “My. 
That’s about the nicest potato I’ve ever seen.” The boy blushed with 
pride. “Okay, here I go.” She took a bite, closed her eyes, and almost 
seemed to swoon. “Nicest tasting, too. Thank you, Horace.” 

The cameras closed in on them as Lucy Gray received a withered 
carrot from a little girl and a boiled soupbone from the girl’s 


grandmother. Someone tapped on Coriolanus’s shoulder, and he 


turned to see Pluribus Bell standing there with a small can of milk. 
“For old times’ sake,” he said with a smile as he punched a couple of 
holes in the lid and passed it to Lucy Gray. “I enjoyed your act at the 
reaping. Did you write that song yourself?” 

Some of the more accommodating — or possibly the hungriest — 
tributes began to station themselves up by the bars. They sat on the 
ground, held out their hands, ducked their heads, and waited. Here 
and there someone, usually a child, would run up and place 
something in their hands and then jump back. The tributes began to 
compete for attention, drawing the cameras to the center of the cage. 
A limber little girl from District 9 did a back handspring after she 
received a bread roll. The boy from District 7 made a good show of 
juggling three walnuts. The audience rewarded those who would 
perform with applause and more food. 

Lucy Gray and Coriolanus resumed their picnic seats and watched 
the show. “We’re a regular circus troupe, we are,” she said as she 
picked bits of meat off her bone. 

“None of them can hold a candle to you,” said Coriolanus. 

Mentors who had been avoided before were now approached by 
their tributes if they offered food. When Sejanus arrived with bags of 
hard-boiled eggs and wedges of bread, all the tributes ran up to him 
except Marcus, who made a point of ignoring him entirely. 

Coriolanus nodded at them. “You were right about Sejanus and 
Marcus. They used to be classmates in District Two.” 


“Well, that’s complicated. At least we don’t have to deal with 


that,” she said. 

“Yes, this is complicated enough.” He meant it as a joke, but it fell 
flat. It was complicated enough, and it got more so by the minute. 

She gave him a wistful smile. “Sure would’ve been nice to meet 
you under different circumstances.” 

“Like how?” It was a dangerous line of questioning, but he 
couldn’t help himself. 

“Oh, like you came to one of my shows and heard me sing,” she 
said. “And afterward you came up to chat, and maybe we had a drink 
and a dance or two.” 

He could imagine it, her singing somewhere like Pluribus’s 
nightclub, him catching her eye, connecting before they’d ever even 
met. “And I’'d come back the next night.” 

“Like we had all the time in the world,” she said. 

Their musing was interrupted by a loud “Woo-hoo!” The tributes 
from District 6 began a funny dance, and the Ring twins got some of 
the audience to clap along in rhythm. After that, things became 
almost festive. The crowd ventured closer, and a few people began to 
converse with the captives. 

On the whole, Coriolanus thought it a good development — it 
would take more than Lucy Gray to justify the prime-time slot for the 
interviews. He decided to let the other tributes have their moment 
and to ask her to sing at closing time. In the meantime, he filled her in 
on the mentors’ discussions that day and stressed what her popularity 


could mean in the arena, now that there was a possibility that people 


could send gifts. 

Secretly, he worried about his resources again. He’d need more 
affluent viewers, who could afford to buy her things. It would look 
bad if a Snow’s tribute received nothing in the arena. Maybe he 
should make it a provision of the proposal that you couldn’t send your 
own tribute gifts. Otherwise, how could he compete? Certainly not 
with Sejanus. And there, by the bars, Arachne had laid out a little 
picnic for her tribute. A fresh loaf of bread, a block of cheese, and 
were those grapes? How could she afford those? Maybe the travel 
industry was picking up. 

He watched as Arachne sliced the cheese with a mother-of-pearl- 
handled knife. Her tribute, the talkative girl from District 10, squatted 
right in front of her, eagerly leaning into the bars. Arachne made a 
thick sandwich but didn’t hand it right over. She seemed to be 
lecturing the girl about something. It was quite a speech. At one point, 
the girl reached through the bars, and Arachne withdrew the 
sandwich, drawing a laugh from the audience. She turned and flashed 
them a grin, shook her finger at her tribute, held out the sandwich 
again, and then pulled it away a second time, much to the crowd’s 
amusement. 

“She’s playing with fire there,” Lucy Gray observed. 

Arachne waved to the crowd and then took a bite of the sandwich 
herself. 

Coriolanus could see the tribute’s face darkening, the muscles 


tightening in her neck. He could see something else, too. Her fingers 


sliding down the bar, darting out, circling the handle of the knife. He 
started to rise, opening his mouth to shout out a warning, but it was 
too late. 

In one movement, the tribute yanked Arachne forward and slit her 


throat. 


> 


Shrieks came from the audience members nearest to the attack. 
Arachne’s face drained of color as she dropped the sandwich and 
clawed at her neck. The blood poured down her fingers as the District 
10 girl released her and gave her a small shove. Arachne stepped 
back, turning and reaching out a dripping hand, imploring the 
audience for help. People were either too stunned or too scared to 
respond. Many drew away as she fell to her knees and began to bleed 
out. 

Coriolanus’s initial reaction was to recoil like the others, to grab 
hold of the monkey house bars for support, but Lucy Gray hissed, 
“Help her!” He remembered the cameras streaming live to the Capitol 
audience. He had no idea what to do for Arachne, but he did not want 
to be seen cringing and clinging. His terror was a private thing, not 
meant for public display. 

He forced his legs into motion and was the first to reach Arachne. 
She clutched his shirt as the life seeped out of her. “Medic!” he cried 


as he eased her to the ground. “Is there a doctor? Please, someone 


help!” He pressed his hand over the wound to stem the blood but 
removed it when she made a choking sound. “Come on!” he screamed 
at the crowd. A couple of Peacekeepers were shouldering their way 
toward him, but much, much too slowly. 

Coriolanus glanced over in time to see the District 10 girl retrieve 
the cheese sandwich and take a furious bite before the bullets pierced 
her body, slamming her into the bars. She slipped into a heap as her 
blood commingled with Arachne’s. Bits of half-chewed food fell from 
her mouth and floated in the red pool. 

The crowd surged back as panicked people tried to flee the area. 
The fading light added a level of desperation. Coriolanus saw one 
small boy fall and watched his leg being trampled before a woman 
yanked him from the ground. Others weren’t so lucky. 

Arachne’s lips made soundless words that he could not decipher. 
When her breathing stopped abruptly, he guessed it was pointless to 
try to resuscitate her. If he forced air into her mouth, wouldn’t it only 
spill out the gaping wound in her neck? Festus was next to him now, 
and the two friends exchanged helpless looks. 

Stepping back from Arachne, Coriolanus flinched at the red, shiny 
stuff coating his hands. He turned and found Lucy Gray huddled 
against the bars of the cage, her face hidden in her ruffled skirt, her 
body shaking, and realized he was shaking as well. That’s how it was 
with him: The wash of blood, the whiz of bullets, the screams in the 
crowd all caused flashbacks to the worst moments of his childhood. 


Rebel boots pounding through the streets, he and the Grandma’am 


pinned down by gunfire, dying bodies twitching around them... his 
mother on the bloodstained bed... the stampedes during the food 
riots, the smashed faces, the moaning people... 

He took immediate steps to mask his terror. Cramming his hands 
into fists at his sides. Trying to take slow, deep breaths. Lucy Gray 
began to vomit, and he turned away to keep his own stomach in 
check. 

Medics appeared, lifting Arachne onto a stretcher. Others assessed 
those who had been wounded by stray bullets or tromped by the feet 
of the audience. A woman was in his face, asking was he hurt, was 
this his blood? Once they’d confirmed it wasn’t, they gave him a towel 
to wipe himself with and moved on. 

As he scrubbed at the blood, he spotted Sejanus kneeling near the 
dead tribute. He had reached through the bars, and he seemed to be 
sprinkling a handful of something white over her body while he 
mumbled some words. Coriolanus only caught a glimpse before a 
Peacekeeper came and pulled Sejanus back. The soldiers were 
swarming the place now, clearing out the last remnants of the 
audience and lining up the tributes along the back of the cage with 
their hands on top of their heads. Calmer, Coriolanus tried to catch 
Lucy Gray’s attention, but her eyes were locked on the ground. 

A Peacekeeper took him by the shoulders and gave him a 
respectful but firm push toward the exit. He found himself following 
Festus up to the main path. They stopped at a water fountain and 


worked a bit more on removing the blood. Neither knew what to say. 


Arachne hadn’t been his favorite person, but she’d always been in his 
life. They’d played as babies, been at birthday parties, stood on ration 
lines, attended classes together. She’d been dressed head to toe in 
black lace at his mother’s funeral, and he’d cheered her brother’s 
graduation only last year. As part of the wealthy old guard of the 
Capitol, she was family. And you didn’t have to like your family. The 
bond was a given. 

“T couldn’t save her,” he said. “I couldn’t stop the blood.” 

“I don’t think anyone could have. At least you tried. That’s what 
matters,” Festus consoled him. 

Clemensia found them, her whole body trembling in distress, and 
they made their way out of the zoo together. 

“Come to my place,” Festus said, but when they reached his 
apartment, he suddenly broke into tears. They saw him onto the 
elevator and said good night. 

It was not until Coriolanus had walked Clemensia home that they 
remembered the assignment Dr. Gaul had given them. The proposal 
about sending tributes food in the arena and the option to bet on 
them. “Surely, she won’t still expect it,” said Clemensia. “I couldn’t do 
it tonight. I couldn’t possibly think about it. You know, without 
Arachne.” 

Coriolanus agreed, but on the way home he thought about Dr. 
Gaul. She would be just the type to penalize them for missing such a 
deadline, regardless of the circumstances. Maybe he should write 


something up to be on the safe side. 


When he’d climbed the twelve flights to the apartment, he found 
the Grandma’am in a state, railing at the districts and airing out her 
best black dress for Arachne’s funeral. She flew at him, patting his 
chest and arms, making sure he was uninjured. Tigris simply wept. “I 
can’t believe Arachne is dead. I just saw her this afternoon at the 
market, buying those grapes.” 

He comforted them and did his best to reassure them of his safety. 
“It won’t happen again. It was like a freak accident. And now the 
security’s bound to be even tighter.” 

When things had calmed down, Coriolanus went to his bedroom, 
stripped off his bloodstained uniform, and headed to his bathroom. In 
the near-scalding water of the shower, he scoured the remainder of 
Arachne’s blood from his body. For about a minute, a painful sobbing 
made his chest ache, but then it passed, and he wasn’t sure if it had to 
do with sorrow over her death or unhappiness over his own 
difficulties. Probably some of both. He pulled on a worn silk robe that 
had been his father’s and decided to take a shot at the proposal. It 
wasn’t as if he would be able to sleep, not with the burbling sound of 
Arachne’s throat still fresh in his ears. No amount of rose-scented 
powder could temper that. Losing himself in the assignment helped to 
calm him, and he preferred working in solitude, not having to parry 
the thoughts of his classmates diplomatically. Without interference, he 
created a simple but solid proposal. 

Reflecting on the classroom discussion with Dr. Gaul and the 


electricity in the audience when they’d fed the starving tributes at the 


zoo, he focused on the food. For the first time, sponsors would be able 
to buy items — a piece of bread, a chunk of cheese — to be delivered 
by drone to a specific tribute. A panel would be established to review 
the nature and value of each item. A sponsor would have to be a 
Capitol citizen in good standing who was not directly related to the 
Games. This ruled out Gamemakers, mentors, Peacekeepers assigned 
to guard the tributes, and any of the aforementioned parties’ 
immediate family members. When it came to his idea of betting, he 
suggested a second panel to create a venue that would allow Capitol 
citizens to officially wager on the victor, establish the odds, and 
oversee the payments to the winners. Proceeds from either program 
would be funneled toward the costs of the Games, making them 
essentially free for the government of Panem. 

Coriolanus worked steadily until Friday morning dawned. As the 
first rays came through his window, he dressed in a clean uniform, 
tucked his proposal under his arm, and left the apartment as quietly 
as possible. 

Dr. Gaul wore several hats between her research, military, and 
academic duties, so he had to venture a guess as to where her desk 
might be located. Since it was Hunger Games business, he walked to 
the imposing structure known as the Citadel, which housed the War 
Department. The Peacekeepers on duty had no intention of letting him 
into the high-security zone, but they assured him the pages of the 
proposal would be placed on her desk. It was the best he could do. 


As he walked back to the Corso, the screen that had shown only 


the seal of Panem in the early hours came alive with the events of the 
previous night. Again and again they aired the tribute slitting 
Arachne’s throat, him arriving to help her, and the gunning down of 
the murderer. He felt strangely detached from the action, as if all his 
emotional reserve had been depleted by his brief outburst in the 
shower. Since his initial reaction to Arachne’s death had been 
somewhat lacking, he was relieved to see that the cameras had only 
recorded his attempt to save her, the moments when he appeared 
brave and responsible. You would only notice his shaking if you 
looked closely for it. 

He was particularly pleased to catch a quick shot of Livia Cardew 
flailing her way through the crowd at the sound of the gunfire. In 
rhetoric class, she’d once attributed his inability to decipher the 
deeper meaning of a poem to the fact that he was too self-absorbed. 
The irony, coming from Livia, of all people! But actions spoke louder 
than words. Coriolanus to the rescue, Livia to the nearest exit. 

By the time he reached home, Tigris and the Grandma’am had 
recovered somewhat from the shock of Arachne’s death and were 
declaring him a national hero, which he waved off but secretly 
relished. He should have been exhausted, but he felt a nervous energy 
running through him, and the announcement that the Academy would 
still be holding classes gave him a boost. Being a hero at home had its 
limitations; he needed a larger audience. 

After a breakfast of fried potatoes and cold buttermilk, he made 


his way to the Academy with the somberness the occasion demanded. 


Since he was known to be Arachne’s friend, and had proven it by 
trying to save her, he seemed to have been designated chief mourner. 
In the hallways, condolences came in from every side, along with 
praise for his actions. Someone suggested that he cared for her like a 
sister, and although he’d done nothing of the sort, he allowed it. No 
need to disrespect the dead. 

As dean of the Academy, it should’ve been Highbottom who led 
the schoolwide assembly, but he did not make an appearance. Instead 
it was Satyria who spoke of Arachne in glowing terms: her audacity, 
her outspokenness, her sense of humor. All the things, Coriolanus 
thought as he dabbed his eyes, that were so annoying about her and 
had ultimately brought on her death. Professor Sickle took the mic 
and commended him, and to a lesser extent Festus, for their response 
to a fallen comrade in arms. Hippocrata Lunt, the school counselor, 
invited anyone with grief issues to visit her office, especially if they 
were having violent impulses toward themselves or others. Satyria 
came back and announced that Arachne’s official funeral would be the 
following day, and the entire student body would attend to honor her 
memory. It would be aired live to all of Panem, so they were 
encouraged to look and behave as befitted the youth of the Capitol. 
Then they were allowed to mingle, to remember their friend, and to 
console one another for her loss. Classes would resume after lunch. 

After a gloppy fish salad on toast, the mentors were scheduled to 
meet with Professor Demigloss again, although no one really felt like 


going. It didn’t help that the first thing he did was pass out a mentor 


sheet, updated with the tributes’ names, saying, “This should facilitate 


keeping track of your progress in the Games.” 


10th HUNGER GAMES 


MENTOR ASSIGNMENTS 
DISTRICT 1 
Boy (Facet) Livia Cardew 
Girl (Velvereen) Palmyra Monty 
DISTRICT 2 
Boy (Marcus) Sejanus Plinth 
Girl (Sabyn) Florus Friend 
DISTRICT 3 
Boy (Circ) Io Jasper 
Girl (Teslee) Urban Canville 
DISTRICT 4 
Boy (Mizzen) Persephone Price 
Girl (Coral) Festus Creed 
DISTRICT 5 
Boy (Hy) Dennis Fling 
Girl (Sol) Iphigenia Moss 
DISTRICT 6 
Boy (Otto) Apollo Ring 
Girl (Ginnee) Diana Ring 
DISTRICT 7 
Boy (Treech) Vipsania Sickle 
Girl (Lamina) Pliny Harrington 
DISTRICT 8 
Boy (Bobbin) Juno Phipps 
Girl (Wovey) Hilarius Heavensbee 
DISTRICT 9 
Boy (Panlo) Gaius Breen 
Girl (Sheaf) Androcles Anderson 
DISTRICT 10 
Boy (Tanner) Domitia Whimsiwick 
Girl (Brandy) Arachne Crane 
DISTRICT 11 
Boy (Reaper) Clemensia Dovecote 
Girl (Dill) Felix Ravinstill 
DISTRICT 12 
Boy (Jessup) Lysistrata Vickers 


Girl (Lucy Gray) 


Coriolanus, along with several people around him, automatically 


Coriolanus Snow 


crossed off the name of the girl from District 10. But then what? It 
would make sense to cross off Arachne’s name as well, but that felt 
different. His pen hovered over her name and then left it alone for the 
moment. It seemed pretty cold to scratch her off the list like that. 

About ten minutes into class, a note arrived from the office 
instructing him and Clemensia to leave class and report immediately 
to the Citadel. This could only be in response to his proposal, and 
Coriolanus felt a combination of excitement and nervousness. Did Dr. 
Gaul like it? Hate it? What did it mean? 

Since he hadn’t bothered to tell her about his proposal, Clemensia 
was put out. “I can’t believe you wrote up some proposal while 
Arachne’s body was still warm! I cried all night long.” Her puffy eyes 
backed up the claim. 

“Well, it’s not like I could sleep either,” Coriolanus objected. 
“After holding her while she died. Working kept me from freaking 
out.” 

“I know, I know. Everyone handles grief differently. I didn’t mean 
that like it sounded.” She sighed. “So, what’s in this thing I 
supposedly cowrote?” 

Coriolanus gave her a quick overview, but she still seemed 
annoyed. “I’m sorry, I meant to tell you. It’s pretty basic stuff, and 
some of it we already discussed as a group. Look, I already got one 
demerit this week — I can’t afford to let my grades take a hit, too.” 

“Did you at least put my name on it? I don’t want it to seem like I 


was too feeble to pull my weight,” she said. 


“I didn’t put anyone’s name on it. It’s more of a class project.” 
Coriolanus threw up his hands in exasperation. “Honestly, Clemmie, I 
thought I was doing you a favor!” 

“Okay, okay,” she said, relenting. “I guess I owe you. But I wish I’d 
at least had a chance to read it. Just cover for me if she starts grilling 
us about it.” 

“You know I will. She’ll probably hate it anyway,” he said. “I 
mean, I think it’s pretty solid, but she’s operating with a whole 
different rule book.” 

“That’s true,” Clemensia agreed. “Do you think there will even be 
a Hunger Games now?” 

He hadn’t thought of that. “I don’t know. What with Arachne, and 
then the funeral... If they happen, they’ll be delayed, I suppose. I 
know you don’t like them anyway.” 

“Do you? Does anyone, really?” Clemensia asked. 

“Maybe they'll just send the tributes home.” The idea was not 
entirely unappealing when he thought of Lucy Gray. He wondered 
how the fallout from Arachne’s death was affecting her. Were all the 
tributes being punished? Would they allow him to see her? 

“Yes, or make them Avoxes, or something,” said Clemensia. “It’s 
awful, but not as bad as the arena. I mean, I’d rather be alive without 
a tongue than dead, wouldn’t you?” 

“I would, but Pm not sure my tribute would,” said Coriolanus. 
“Can you still sing without a tongue?” 


“I don’t know. Hum, maybe.” They had reached the gates of the 


Citadel. “This place scared me when I was little.” 

“Tt scares me still,” said Coriolanus, which made her laugh. 

At the Peacekeeper station, their retinas were scanned and 
checked against the Capitol files. Their book bags were taken and a 
guard escorted them down a long, gray corridor and onto an elevator 
that plunged down at least twenty-five floors. Coriolanus had never 
been so far underground and, surprisingly, found he liked it. Much as 
he loved the Snows’ penthouse apartment, he’d felt so vulnerable 
when the bombs had fallen during the war. Here, it seemed nothing 
could reach him. 

The elevator doors parted, and they stepped into a gigantic open 
laboratory. Rows of research tables, unfamiliar machines, and glass 
cases spread out into the distance. Coriolanus turned to the guard, but 
she closed the doors and left them without giving further instructions. 
“Shall we?” he asked Clemensia. 

They began to make their way cautiously into the lab. “I have a 
terrible feeling I’m going to break something,” she whispered. 

They walked along a wall of glass cases fifteen feet high. Inside, a 
menagerie of creatures, some familiar, some altered to the point that 
no label could easily be attached, roamed and panted and flopped 
around in apparent unhappiness. Oversized fangs, claws, and flippers 
swiped the glass as they passed. 

A young man in a lab coat intercepted them and led them to a 
section of reptile cases. Here they found Dr. Gaul, peering into a large 


terrarium filled with hundreds of snakes. They were artificially bright, 


their skins almost glowing in shades of neon pink, yellow, and blue. 
No longer than a ruler and not much thicker than a pencil, they 
twisted into a psychedelic carpet that covered the bottom of the case. 

“Ah, here you are,” Dr. Gaul said with a grin. “Say hello to my 
new babies.” 

“Hello there,” said Coriolanus, putting his face close to the glass to 
see the writhing mess. They reminded him of something, but he 
couldn’t think what. 

“Ts there a point to the color?” asked Clemensia. 

“There is a point to everything or nothing at all, depending on 
your worldview,” said Dr. Gaul. “Which brings me to your proposal. I 
liked it. Who wrote it? Just you two? Or did your brassy friend weigh 
in before her throat was cut?” 

Clemensia pressed her lips together, upset, but then Coriolanus 
saw her face tighten. She was not going to be intimidated. “The whole 
class discussed it as a group.” 

“And Arachne was planning to help write it up last night, but 
then ... as you said,” he added. 

“But you two forged ahead, is that it?” asked Dr. Gaul. 

“That’s right,” said Clemensia. “We wrote it up at the library, and I 
printed it out at my apartment last night. Then I gave it to Coriolanus 
so he could drop it off this morning. As assigned.” 

Dr. Gaul addressed Coriolanus. “Is that how it happened?” 

Coriolanus felt put on the spot. “I did drop it off this morning, yes. 


Well, just to the Peacekeepers on guard; I wasn’t allowed in,” he said 


evasively. Something was strange about this line of questioning. “Was 
that a problem?” 

“I just wanted to make sure you’d both had your hands on it,” said 
Dr. Gaul. 

“I can show you the parts the group discussed and how they were 
developed in the proposal,” he offered. 

“Yes. Do that. Did you bring a copy?” she asked. 

Clemensia looked at Coriolanus expectantly. “No, I didn’t,” he 
said. He wasn’t thrilled with Clemensia laying it at his door, when 
she’d been too shaky to even help write the thing. Especially since she 
was one of his most formidable competitors for the Academy prizes. 
“Did you?” 

“They took our book bags.” Clemensia turned to Dr. Gaul. 
“Perhaps we could use the copy we gave you?” 

“Well, we could. But my assistant lined this very case with it while 
I was having my lunch,” she said with a laugh. 

Coriolanus stared down into the mass of wriggling snakes, with 
their flicking tongues. Sure enough, he could catch phrases of his 
proposal between the coils. 

“Suppose you two retrieve it?” Dr. Gaul suggested. 

It felt like a test. A weird Dr. Gaul test, but still. And somehow 
planned, but he couldn’t begin to guess to what end. He glanced at 
Clemensia and tried to remember if she was afraid of snakes, but he 
scarcely knew if he was himself. They didn’t have snakes in the lab at 


school. 


She gave Dr. Gaul a clenched smile. “Of course. Do we just reach 
in through the trapdoor on the top?” 

Dr. Gaul removed the entire cover. “Oh, no, let’s give you some 
room. Mr. Snow? Why don’t you start?” 

Coriolanus reached in slowly, feeling the warmth of the heated air. 

“That’s right. Move gently. Don’t disrupt them,” Dr. Gaul 
instructed. 

He scooped his fingers under the edge of a sheet of his proposal 
and slowly slid it out from under the snakes. They slumped down into 
a heap but didn’t seem to mind much. “I don’t think they even noticed 
me,” he said to Clemensia, who looked a little green. 

“Here I go, then.” She reached into the tank. 

“They can’t see too well, and they hear even less,” said Dr. Gaul. 
“But they know you’re there. Snakes can smell you using their 
tongues, these mutts here more than others.” 

Clemensia hooked a sheet with her fingernail and lifted it up. The 
snakes stirred. 

“If you’re familiar, if they have pleasant associations with your 
scent — a warm tank, for instance — they’ll ignore you. A new scent, 
something foreign, that would be a threat,” said Dr. Gaul. “You’d be 
on your own, little girl.” 

Coriolanus had just begun to put two and two together when he 
saw the look of alarm on Clemensia’s face. She yanked her hand from 
the tank, but not before a half dozen neon snakes sank their fangs into 


her flesh. 


> 


Clemensia gave a bloodcurdling scream, shaking her hand madly 
to rid it of the vipers. The tiny puncture wounds left by their fangs 
oozed the neon colors of their skins. Pus dyed bright pink, yellow, and 
blue dripped down her fingers. 

Lab assistants in white jackets materialized. Two pinned Clemensia 
to the floor while a third injected her with a scary-looking 
hypodermic needle filled with black fluid. Her lips turned purple and 
then bloodless before she passed out. The assistants dropped her onto 
a stretcher and whisked her away. 

Coriolanus began to follow them, but Dr. Gaul stopped him with 
her voice. “Not you, Mr. Snow. You stay here.” 

“But I — She —” he stammered. “Will she die?” 

“Anyone’s guess,” said Dr. Gaul. She had dipped a hand back into 
the tank and was lightly trailing her gnarled fingers over her pets. 
“Clearly, her scent was not on the paper. So, you wrote the proposal 
alone?” 


“I did.” There was no point in lying. Lying had probably killed 


Clemensia. Obviously, he was dealing with a lunatic who should be 
handled with extreme care. 

“Good. The truth, finally. I’ve no use for liars. What are lies but 
attempts to conceal some sort of weakness? If I see that side of you 
again, I’ll cut you off. If Dean Highbottom punishes you for it, I won’t 
stand in his way. Are we clear?” She wrapped one of the pink snakes 
around her wrist like a bracelet and seemed to be admiring it. 

“Very clear,” said Coriolanus. 

“Its good, your proposal,” she said. “Well thought out and simple 
to execute. I’m going to recommend my team review it and implement 
a version of the first stage.” 

“All right,” said Coriolanus, afraid to make more than the blandest 
of responses, surrounded as he was by lethal creatures that did her 
bidding. 

Dr. Gaul laughed. “Oh, go home. Or go see your friend if she’s still 
there to see. It’s time for my crackers and milk.” 

Coriolanus hurried off, bumping into a lizard tank and sending its 
inhabitants into a frenzy. He made a wrong turn, then another, and 
found himself in a ghoulish section of the lab where the glass cases 
housed humans with animal parts grafted to their bodies. Tiny 
feathered ruffs around their necks; talons, or even tentacles, in place 
of fingers; and something — perhaps gills? — embedded in their 
chests. His appearance startled them, and when a few opened their 
mouths to plead with him, he realized they were Avoxes. Their cries 


reverberated and he caught a glimpse of small black birds perched 


above them. The name jabberjay popped into his mind. A brief chapter 
in his genetics class. The failed experiment, the bird that could repeat 
human speech, that had been a tool for espionage until the rebels had 
figured out its abilities and sent it back carrying false information. 
Now the useless creatures were creating an echo chamber filled with 
the Avoxes’ pitiful wails. 

Finally, a woman in a lab coat and oversized pink bifocals 
intercepted him, scolded him for disturbing the birds, and escorted 
him back to the elevator. As he waited, a security camera blinked 
down at him and he compulsively tried to smooth out the lone, 
crumpled page of his proposal he’d crushed in his hand. Peacekeepers 
met him above, returned both his and Clemensia’s book bags, and 
marched him out of the Citadel. 

Coriolanus made it down the street and around the corner before 
his legs gave way and he dropped onto the curb. The sun hurt his 
eyes, and he couldn’t seem to catch his breath. He was exhausted, 
having not slept the night before, but hyper with adrenaline. What 
had just happened? Was Clemensia dead? He had not begun to come 
to terms with Arachne’s violent end, and now this. It was like the 
Hunger Games. Only they weren’t district kids. The Capitol was 
supposed to protect them. He thought of Sejanus telling Dr. Gaul it 
was the government’s job to protect everybody, even the people in the 
districts, but he still wasn’t sure how to square that with the fact that 
they’d been such recent enemies. But certainly the child of a Snow 


should be a top priority. He could be dead if Clemensia had written 


the proposal instead of him. He buried his head in his hands, 
confused, angry, and most of all afraid. Afraid of Dr. Gaul. Afraid of 
the Capitol. Afraid of everything. If the people who were supposed to 
protect you played so fast and loose with your life... then how did 
you survive? Not by trusting them, that was for sure. And if you 
couldn’t trust them, who could you trust? All bets were off. 

Coriolanus knotted up at the memory of the snake fangs sinking 
into flesh. Poor Clemmie, could she really be dead? And in that 
nightmarish way. If she was, was it his fault? For not calling her out 
for lying? It seemed such a minor infraction, but would Dr. Gaul place 
blame on him for covering for her? If she died, he could be in all 
kinds of trouble. 

He guessed that in an emergency, a person would be taken to the 
nearby Capitol Hospital, so he found himself running in its direction. 
Once inside the cool entrance hall, he followed the signs to the 
emergency room. As soon as the automated door slid open, he could 
hear Clemensia screaming, just as she had when the snakes bit her. At 
least she was still alive. He babbled something to the nurse at the 
counter, and she made enough sense of it to have him take a seat just 
as a wave of dizziness hit him. He must have looked terrible, because 
she brought him two packets of nutritional crackers and a glass of 
sweet, fizzy lemon drink, which he tried to sip and ended up gulping 
down, longing for a refill. The sugar made him feel a bit better, 
although not enough to try the crackers, which he pocketed. By the 


time the attending doctor emerged from the back, he was almost in 


control of himself. The doctor reassured him. They’d treated the 
victims of mishaps at the lab before. Since the antidote had been 
swiftly administered, there was every reason to believe Clemensia 
would survive, although there might be some neurological damage. 
She’d be hospitalized until they were sure she was stable. If he 
checked back in a few days, she might be ready for visitors. 

Coriolanus thanked the doctor, handed over her book bag, and 
agreed when he suggested that the best thing would be to return 
home. As he retraced his steps to the entrance, he spotted Clemensia’s 
parents rushing in his direction and managed to conceal himself in a 
doorway. He didn’t know what the Dovecotes had been told, but he 
had no interest in talking to them, especially before he’d worked out 
his story. 

The lack of a plausible story, preferably one that absolved him of 
being an accessory to her condition, made his return to school or even 
home impossible. 

Tigris would not be home until supper at the earliest, and the 
Grandma’am would be horrified by his situation. Strangely, he found 
the only person he wanted to talk to was Lucy Gray, who was both 
clever and unlikely to repeat his words. 

His feet carried him to the zoo before he had really considered the 
difficulties he would encounter there. A pair of impressively armed 
Peacekeepers were on guard at the main entrance, with several more 
milling around behind them. At first they waved him away; 


instructions were to allow no visitors to the zoo. But Coriolanus 


played the mentor card, and at this point some of them recognized 
him as the boy who’d tried to save Arachne. His celebrity was enough 
to convince them to call in a request for an exception. The 
Peacekeeper spoke to Dr. Gaul directly, and Coriolanus could hear her 
distinctive cackle shooting out of the phone, even though he stood 
several yards away. He was allowed in with a Peacekeeper, but only 
for a short time. 

Trash from the fleeing crowd was still strewn along the path to the 
monkey house. Dozens of rats darted about, gnawing on leftovers, 
from bits of rotting food to shoes lost in the panic. Although the sun 
was high, several raccoons foraged, scooping up tidbits in their clever 
little hands. One chewed on a dead rat, warning the others to give it a 
wide berth. 

“Not the zoo I remember,” said the Peacekeeper. “Nothing but kids 
in cages and vermin running loose.” 

At points along the path, Coriolanus could see small containers of 
white powder tucked under boulders or against walls. He remembered 
the poison used by the Capitol during the siege — a time with little 
food but plenty of rats. Humans, particularly dead ones, had become 
their daily fare. During the worst of it, of course, humans had eaten 
humans as well. There was no point in feeling superior to the rats. 

“Ts that rat poison?” he asked the Peacekeeper. 

“Yeah, some new stuff they’re trying out today. But the rats are so 
smart, they won’t go near it.” He shrugged. “It’s what they gave us to 


work with.” 


Inside the cage, the tributes, shackled again, pressed against the 
back wall or positioned themselves behind the rock formations, as if 
trying to make themselves as inconspicuous as possible. 

“You have to keep your distance,” said the Peacekeeper. “Your girl 
isn’t likely a threat, but who knows? Another might attack you. You 
have to stay back where they can’t touch you.” 

Coriolanus nodded and went to his usual rock but remained 
standing behind it. He didn’t feel threatened by the tributes — they 
were the least of his problems — but he didn’t want to give Dean 
Highbottom any other excuse to punish him. 

At first he couldn’t locate Lucy Gray. Then he made eye contact 
with Jessup, who sat propped against the back wall, holding what 
appeared to be the Snows’ handkerchief to his neck. Jessup gave 
something beside him a shake, and Lucy Gray sat straight up with a 
start. 

For a moment she seemed disoriented. When she spotted 
Coriolanus, she wiped the sleep from her eyes and combed her loose 
hair back with her fingers. She lost her balance as she rose, and 
reached out to catch herself on Jessup’s arm. Still unsteady, she began 
to make her way across the cage to him, dragging the chains with her. 
Was it the heat? The trauma of the killing? Hunger? Since the Capitol 
wasn’t feeding the tributes, she’d had nothing since Arachne’s murder, 
when she’d vomited up the precious food from the crowd, and 
probably his bread pudding and the apple from the morning as well. 


So she’d gone almost five days on a meat loaf sandwich and a plum. 


He was going to have to find a way to get her more to eat, even if it 
was cabbage soup. 

When she’d crossed the waterless moat, he held up a cautionary 
hand. “I’m sorry, we can’t get close.” 

Lucy Gray stopped a few feet from the bars. “Surprised you got in 
at all.” Her throat, her skin, her hair — everything seemed parched in 
the hot afternoon sun. A bad bruise on her arm had not been there the 
previous night. Who had hit her? Another tribute, or a guard? 

“T didn’t mean to wake you,” he said. 

She shrugged. “It’s nothing. Jessup and I take turns sleeping. 
Capitol rats have a taste for people.” 

“The rats are trying to eat you?” Coriolanus asked, revolted at the 
thought. 

“Well, something bit Jessup’s neck the first night we were here. 
Too dark to see what, but he mentioned fur. And last night, something 
crawled over my leg.” She indicated a container of white powder by 
the bars. “That stuff doesn’t do a lick of good.” 

Coriolanus had a terrible image of her lying dead under a swarm 
of rats. It wiped away the last few shreds of resistance he had, and 
despair engulfed him. For her. For himself. For the both of them. “Oh, 
Lucy Gray, I’m so sorry. I’m so sorry about all of this.” 

“It’s not your fault,” she said. 

“You must hate me. You should. I would hate me,” he said. 

“I don’t hate you. The Hunger Games weren’t your idea,” she 


replied. 


“But I’m participating in them. I’m helping them happen!” His 
head dropped in shame. “I should be like Sejanus and at least try to 
quit.” 

“No, don’t! Please don’t. Don’t leave me to go through this alone!” 
She took a step toward him and almost fainted. Her hands caught the 
bars, and she slid down to the ground. 

Ignoring the guard’s warning, he impulsively stepped over the 
rock and crouched down across the bars from her. “Are you all right?” 
She nodded, but she didn’t look all right. He’d wanted to tell her 
about the scare with the snakes and Clemensia’s brush with death. 
He’d hoped to ask her advice, but it all paled in comparison to her 
situation. He remembered the crackers the nurse had given him and 
fumbled for the crumpled packets in his pocket. “I brought you these. 
They’re not big, but they’re very nutritious.” 

That sounded stupid. How could their nutritional value matter to 
her? He realized he was just parroting what his teachers had said 
during the war, when one of the incentives for going to school had 
been the free snack provided by the government. The scratchy, 
tasteless things washed down with water were all some of the kids 
had to eat for the day. He remembered their little clawlike hands 
tearing into the wrapping and the desperate crunching that followed. 

Lucy Gray immediately ripped open a packet and stuffed one of 
the two crackers into her mouth, chewing and swallowing the dry 
thing with difficulty. She pressed a hand against her stomach, sighed, 


and ate the second more slowly. The food seemed to focus her, and 


her voice sounded calmer. 

“Thanks,” she said. “That’s better.” 

“Fat the others,” he urged, nodding to the second packet. 

She shook her head. “No. Pll save these for Jessup. He’s my ally 
now.” 

“Your ally?” Coriolanus was perplexed. How could one have an 
ally in the Games? 

“Uh-huh. The tributes from District Twelve are going down 
together,” said Lucy Gray. “He’s not the brightest star in the Dipper, 
but he’s strong as an ox.” 

Two crackers seemed a small price to pay for Jessup’s protection. 
“TIl get you more to eat as soon as I can. And it looks like people are 
going to be allowed to send food into the arena. It’s official now.” 

“That’d be good. More food would be good.” She leaned her head 
forward and rested it on the bars. “Then, like you said, it might make 
sense to sing. Make people want to help me.” 

“At the interview,” he suggested. “You could sing the valley song 
again.” 

“Maybe.” Her brow furrowed in thought. “They showing this in all 
Panem, or just the Capitol?” 

“All Panem, I think,” he answered. “But you won’t get anything 
from the districts.” 

“Not expecting to. Not the point,” she said. “Maybe I will sing, 
though. Be better with a guitar or something.” 


“I can try to find you one.” Not that the Snows had any 


instruments. Except for the Grandma’am’s daily anthem and his 
mother’s long-ago bedtime songs, there’d been little music in his life 
until Lucy Gray appeared. He rarely listened to the Capitol radio 
broadcast, which mostly played marches and propaganda songs. 
Those all sounded the same to him. 

“Hey!” The Peacekeeper waved at him from the path. “That’s too 
close! Time’s up anyway.” 

Coriolanus rose. “I better go if I want them to let me in again.” 

“Sure. Sure. And thanks. For the crackers and all,” said Lucy Gray, 
grasping the bars to struggle to her feet. 

He reached through the bars to help her up. “It’s nothing.” 

“Not to you maybe,” she said. “But it’s meant the world having 
someone show up like I mattered.” 

“You do matter,” he said. 

“Well, there’s a lot of evidence to the contrary.” She rattled her 
chains and gave them a tug. And then, as if remembering something, 
she looked up at the sky. 

“You matter to me,” he insisted. The Capitol may not value her, 
but he did. Hadn’t he just poured his heart out to her? 

“Time to go, Mr. Snow!” the Peacekeeper called. 

“You matter to me, Lucy Gray,” he repeated. His words drew her 
eyes back to him, but she still seemed distant. 

“Look, kid, don’t make me report you,” said the Peacekeeper. 

“Tve got to go.” Coriolanus started to leave. 


“Hey!” she said with a certain urgency. He turned back. “Hey, I 


want you to know I don’t really believe you’re here for grades or 
glory. You're a rare bird, Coriolanus.” 

“You, too,” he said. 

She dipped her head in agreement and headed back to Jessup, her 
chains leaving a trail in the dirty straw and rat droppings. When she 
reached her partner, she lay down and curled up in a ball, as if 
exhausted by the brief encounter. 

Twice he tripped on his way out of the zoo, and he recognized that 
he was too tired to come up with any good solutions to anything. It 
was late enough now that his arrival at home wouldn’t seem 
suspicious, so he headed back to the apartment. He had the 
misfortune to bump into his classmate Persephone Price, the daughter 
of the infamous Nero Price, who’d once cannibalized the maid. They 
ended up walking together, since they were neighbors. She’d been 
assigned to mentor Mizzen, a sturdy thirteen-year-old boy from 
District 4, and so had been present when he and Clemensia had been 
called from class. He dreaded any discussion of the proposal, but she 
was still too distraught over Arachne’s death to talk about anything 
else. Usually, he avoided Persephone altogether, because he could 
never help wondering if she had known the ingredients of her 
wartime stew. For some time, he’d felt afraid of her, but now she only 
inspired disgust, no matter how many times he reminded himself of 
her innocence. With her dimples and hazel green eyes, she was 
prettier than any girl in his year, with the possible exception of 


Clemensia ... well, pre-snakebite Clemensia. But the idea of kissing 


her repulsed him. Even now, as she gave him a tearful hug good-bye, 
all he could think of was that severed leg. 

Coriolanus dragged himself up the stairs, his thoughts darker than 
ever at the memory of the poor maid collapsed from hunger in the 
street. How long could he expect Lucy Gray to last? She was fading 
fast. Weak and distracted. Injured and broken. But most of all, slowly 
starving to death. By tomorrow, she might not be able to stand. If he 
didn’t find a way to feed her, she’d be dead before the Hunger Games 


even began. 


< 


When he reached the apartment, the Grandma’am took one look at 
him and suggested a nap before supper. He fell on his bed, feeling too 
stressed to ever sleep again. The next thing he knew, Tigris was gently 
shaking his shoulder. A tray on his night table gave off the comforting 
smell of noodle soup. Sometimes the butcher would give her chicken 
carcasses for free, and she’d boil them into something wonderful. 

“Coryo,” she said. “Satyria has called three times, and I can’t think 
of any more excuses. Come on, eat some supper and call her back.” 

“Did she ask about Clemensia? Does everyone know?” he blurted 
out. 

“Clemensia Dovecote? No. Why would she?” Tigris asked. 

“Tt was so awful.” He told her the story in all its gory detail. 

As he spoke, the color left her face. “Dr. Gaul made the snakes bite 
her? Over a little white lie like that?” 

“She did. And she didn’t care at all whether Clemmie survived,” he 


said. “Just shooed me out so she could get her afternoon snack.” 


“That’s sadistic. Or completely demented,” said Tigris. “Should 
you report her?” 

“To who? She’s the Head Gamemaker,” he said. “She works 
directly with the president. She’ll say it was our fault for lying.” 

Tigris thought it over. “All right. Don’t report her. Or confront her. 
Just avoid her as much as possible.” 

“That’s hard as a mentor. She keeps showing up at the Academy to 
play with this rabbit mutt and ask a lot of crazy questions. One word 
from her could make or break my prize.” He rubbed his face with his 
hands. “And Arachne’s dead, and Clemensia’s all full of venom, and 
Lucy Gray... well, that’s another really awful story. I doubt she'll 
make it to the Games, and maybe that’s for the best.” 

Tigris tucked a spoon into his hand. “Eat your soup. We’ve gotten 
through worse than this. Snow lands on top?” 

“Snow lands on top,” he said with so little conviction they had to 
laugh. It made him feel a bit more normal. He took a few bites of soup 
to please her, then realized he was starving and made short work of it. 

When Satyria called again, he almost launched into his confession, 
but it turned out that all she wanted to do was ask him to sing the 
anthem at Arachne’s funeral in the morning. “Your heroics at the zoo, 
combined with the fact that you’re the only one who knows all the 
words, made you the faculty’s first choice.” 

“Td be honored, of course,” he replied. 

“Good.” Satyria slurped something, causing the ice to clink in her 


glass, then came up for air. “How are things with your tribute?” 


Coriolanus hesitated. To complain might seem childish, like he 
couldn’t handle his own problems. He almost never asked Satyria for 
help. But then he thought of Lucy Gray buckling under the weight of 
her chains and threw caution to the wind. “Not well. I saw Lucy Gray 
today. Just for a minute. She’s very weak. The Capitol hasn’t fed her 
at all.” 

“Since she left District Twelve? Why, that’s been, what? Four 
days?” Satyria asked, surprised. 

“Five. I don’t think she’s going to make it to the Hunger Games. 
I’m not even going to have a tribute to mentor,” he said. “A lot of us 
won't.” 

“Well, that’s not fair. It’s like telling you to do an experiment with 
broken equipment,” she responded. “And now the Games will be 
delayed at least another day or two.” She paused, then added, “Let me 
see what I can do.” 

He hung up and turned to Tigris. “They want me to sing at the 
funeral. She didn’t mention Clemensia. They must be keeping it a 
secret.” 

“Then that’s what you do, too,” said Tigris. “Maybe they’ll pretend 
the whole thing didn’t happen.” 

“Maybe they won’t even tell Dean Highbottom,” he said, 
brightening. Then another thought hit him. “Tigris? I just 
remembered, I can’t really sing.” And somehow, this was the funniest 
thing either of them had ever heard. 


The Grandma’am, however, thought it was no laughing matter, 


and the following morning she had him up at dawn so she could 
coach him. At the end of every line she’d poke him in his ribs with a 
ruler and shout, “Breathe!” until he couldn’t imagine making any 
other choice. For the third time that week, she sacrificed one of her 
darlings to his future, pinning a light blue rosebud to his carefully 
pressed uniform jacket and saying, “There. It matches your eyes.” 
Looking sharp, with a belly full of oatmeal and a rib cage dotted with 
bruises reminding him to inhale, he set off for the Academy. 

Although it was Saturday, the entire student body reported to 
homeroom before they assembled on the front steps of the Academy, 
divided neatly and alphabetically by class. By virtue of his 
assignment, Coriolanus found himself in the front row with faculty 
and distinguished guests, first and foremost President Ravinstill. 
Satyria gave him a quick overview of the program, but the only thing 
that stuck in his head was that his rendition of the anthem opened the 
ceremonies. He didn’t mind public speaking but had never sung 
publicly — there was little occasion to in Panem. It was one reason 
that Lucy Gray’s song had caught people’s attention. He calmed his 
nerves by reminding himself that even if he howled like a dog, there 
wasn’t much to compare him to. 

Across the avenue, the temporary stands set up for the funeral 
procession quickly filled with mourners dressed in black, the one 
color everyone could be counted on to have, given the loss of loved 
ones during the war. He looked for the Cranes but couldn’t spot them 


in the crowd. The Academy and the surrounding buildings were 


festooned with funereal banners and sported Capitol flags in every 
window. Numerous cameras were positioned to record the event, and 
multiple Capitol TV reporters streamed live commentary. Coriolanus 
thought it was quite a display for Arachne, disproportionate to both 
her life and death, the latter of which could have been avoided if 
she’d refrained from being such an exhibitionist. So many people had 
died heroically in the war, with so little recognition, that it grated on 
him. He was relieved that he was singing instead of having to praise 
her talents, which, if memory served, were limited to being loud 
enough to fill the school auditorium without a mic and the ability to 
balance a spoon on her nose. And Dean Highbottom had accused him 
of showboating? Still, he reminded himself, she was practically 
family. 

The Academy clock struck nine, and the crowd fell silent. On cue, 
Coriolanus rose and walked to the podium. Satyria had promised 
accompaniment, but the silence stretched so long he actually drew 
breath to begin the anthem before a tinny version began to play over 


the sound system, giving him sixteen measures of introduction. 


Gem of Panem, 


Mighty city, 


Through the ages, you shine anew. 


His singing was more like sustained talking than a melodic tour de 
force, but the song was not particularly challenging. The high note the 


Grandma’am consistently missed was optional; most people sang it an 


octave lower. With the memory of her ruler prodding him, he sailed 
through it, never missing a note or running out of breath. He sat to 
generous applause and an approving nod from the president, who now 
took the podium. 

“Two days ago, Arachne Crane’s young and precious life was 
ended, and so we mourn another victim of the criminal rebellion that 
yet besieges us,” the president intoned. “Her death was as valiant as 
any on the battlefield, her loss more profound as we claim to be at 
peace. But no peace will exist while this disease eats away at all that 
is good and noble in our country. Today we honor her sacrifice with a 
reminder that while evil exists, it does not prevail. And once again, 
we bear witness as our great Capitol brings justice to Panem.” 

The drums began a slow, deep boom, and the crowd turned as the 
funeral procession rounded a corner onto the street. Although not as 
wide as the Corso, Scholars Road easily held the honor guard of 
Peacekeepers, standing shoulder to shoulder, twenty wide and forty 
deep, that stepped in flawless uniformity to the rhythm of the drums. 

Coriolanus had wondered about the strategy of telling the districts 
about a tribute killing a Capitol girl, but now he saw the point. Behind 
the Peacekeepers came a long flatbed truck with a crane affixed to it. 
High in the air, the bullet-ridden body of the District 10 girl, Brandy, 
dangled from its hook. Shackled to the truck bed, looking utterly 
filthy and defeated, were the remaining twenty-three tributes. The 
length of their restraints made it impossible to stand, so they either 


crouched or sat on the bare metal floor. This was just another chance 


to remind the districts that they were inferior and that there would be 
repercussions for their resistance. 

He could see Lucy Gray trying to hold on to a shred of dignity, 
sitting as upright as the chains would allow and gazing straight ahead, 
ignoring the corpse swinging gently over her head. But it was no use. 
The dirt, the shackles, the public display — it was too much to 
overcome. He tried to imagine conducting himself under those 
circumstances, until he realized this was undoubtedly what Sejanus 
was doing, and snapped out of it. 

Another battalion of Peacekeepers followed the tributes, paving 
the way for a quartet of horses. They were decked in garlands and 
pulled an ornate wagon with a pure white coffin draped in flowers. 
Behind the coffin came the Cranes, riding in a horse-drawn chariot. At 
least her family had the decency to look uncomfortable. The 
procession halted when the coffin drew up in front of the podium. 

Dr. Gaul, who’d been sitting next to the president, approached the 
mic. Coriolanus thought it was a mistake to let her speak at such a 
moment, but she must have left the crazy lady and her pink snake 
bracelets at home, because she spoke with a stern and intelligent 
clarity. “Arachne Crane, we, your fellow citizens of Panem, vow that 
your death will not be in vain. When one of ours is hit, we hit back 
twice as hard. The Hunger Games will go forward, with more energy 
and commitment than ever before, as we add your name to the long 
list of the innocent who died defending a righteous and just land. 


Your friends, family, and fellow citizens salute you and dedicate the 


Tenth Hunger Games to your memory.” 

So now that loudmouth Arachne was a defender of a righteous and 
just land. Yes, she laid down her life taunting her tribute with a sandwich, 
thought Coriolanus. Maybe her gravestone could read, “Casualty of cheap 
laughs.” 

A row of Peacekeepers in red sashes lifted their guns and sent 
several volleys over the procession, which then rolled down a few 
blocks and disappeared around a corner. 

As the crowd thinned, several people took the pained look on 
Coriolanus’s face as sorrow at Arachne’s death, when ironically he felt 
like killing her all over again. Still, he felt he’d handled himself well, 
until he turned to find Dean Highbottom looking down at him. 

“My condolences on the loss of your friend,” the dean said. 

“And on your student. It’s a difficult day for all of us. But the 
procession was very moving,” Coriolanus replied. 

“Did you think so? I found it excessive and in poor taste,” said 
Dean Highbottom. Taken by surprise, Coriolanus let out a short laugh 
before he recovered and tried to look shocked. The dean dropped his 
gaze to Coriolanus’s blue rosebud. “It’s amazing, how little things 
change. After all the killing. After all the agonized promises to 
remember the cost. After all of that, I can’t distinguish the bud from 
the blossom.” He gave the rose a tap with his forefinger, adjusting the 
angle, and smiled. “Don’t be late to lunch. I hear we’re having pie.” 

The only good thing about the encounter was that it turned out 


there really was pie, peach this time, at the special buffet in the 


school dining hall. Unlike on the day of the reaping, Coriolanus 
loaded his plate with fried chicken and took the largest wedge of pie 
he could find. He slathered his biscuits with butter and had three 
refills of grape punch, filling the last glass so much it spilled over and 
he stained his linen napkin sopping it up. Let people talk. The chief 
mourner needed sustenance. But even as he ate, he recognized it as a 
sign that his usual gift for self-control was eroding. He blamed it on 
Dean Highbottom and his continual harassment. What was he 
babbling on about today anyway? Buds? Blossoms? He should be 
locked up somewhere or, even better, deported to a far-off outpost to 
leave decent Capitol people in peace. Just the thought of him sent 
Coriolanus back for more pie. 

Sejanus, however, poked at his chicken and biscuits without taking 
even one bite. If Coriolanus had disliked the funeral parade, it had to 
have been misery for Sejanus. 

“They'll report you if you throw out all that food,” Coriolanus 
reminded him. He wasn’t crazy about the guy, but he didn’t 
particularly want to see him punished. 

“Right,” said Sejanus. But he still seemed unable to down more 
than a sip of punch. 

As the luncheon was finishing up, Satyria gathered the twenty-two 
active mentors to inform them that not only were the Hunger Games 
still on, they were supposed to be the most visible yet. With this in 
mind, they were to escort their tributes on a tour of the arena that 


very afternoon. It was to be aired live to the entire country, somehow 


driving home the resolution Dr. Gaul had made at the funeral. The 
Head Gamemaker felt that separating the Capitol kids from the 
district ones suggested weakness, as if they were too afraid of their 
enemies to be in their presence. The tributes would be handcuffed but 
not fully shackled. The Peacekeepers’ top sharpshooters would be 
among their guards, but the mentors were to be seen side by side with 
their charges. 

Coriolanus could sense some reluctance among his classmates — 
several of their parents had lodged complaints about shoddy security 
after Arachne’s death — but no one spoke up, none of them wanting 
to seem cowardly. The whole thing seemed dangerous and ill-advised 
to him — what would prevent other tributes from turning on their 
mentors? — but he’d never say so. A part of him wondered if Dr. Gaul 
wasn’t hoping for another act of violence so she could punish another 
tribute, maybe a live one this time, in front of the cameras. 

This further display of Dr. Gaul’s callousness made him feel 
mutinous. He glanced over at Sejanus’s plate. “All done?” 

“T can’t eat today,” said Sejanus. “I don’t know what to do with 
this.” 

Their section had emptied. Under the table, Coriolanus spread his 
stained linen napkin on his lap. He felt even more delinquent when he 
realized it was emblazoned with the Capitol seal. “Put it here,” he said 
with a furtive glance. 

Sejanus gave a look around and quickly transported the chicken 


and biscuits to the napkin. Coriolanus gathered it up and stuffed the 


whole thing in his book bag. They were not allowed to take food from 
the dining hall, and certainly not for a tribute, but where else would 
he get some before the tour? Lucy Gray couldn’t eat the stuff in front 
of the cameras, but her dress had deep pockets. He resented that half 
of his takings would go to Jessup now, but maybe that investment 
would pay off when the Games began. 

“Thanks. You’re quite the rebel,” said Sejanus as they carried their 
trays to the conveyor belt that ran to the kitchen. 

“Tm bad news, all right,” said Coriolanus. 

The mentors piled into a few Academy vans and headed for the 
Capitol Arena, which had been built across the river to prevent 
crowds from swamping the downtown. In its day, the huge, state-of- 
the-art amphitheater had been the site of many an exciting sporting, 
entertainment, or military event. High-profile executions of the enemy 
were staged there during the war, making it a target for the rebel 
bombers. While the original structure stood, it was battered and 
unstable now, useful only as a venue for the Hunger Games. The lush 
field of meticulously tended grass had died from neglect. It was 
riddled with bomb craters, with weeds providing the only greenery on 
the expanse of dirt. Rubble from the explosions — chunks of metal 
and stone — lay everywhere, and the fifteen-foot wall that encircled 
the field was fissured and pockmarked from the shrapnel. Each year, 
the tributes would be locked in with nothing but an arsenal of knives, 
swords, maces, and the like to facilitate the bloodshed while the 


audience watched from home. At the end of the Games, the one who 


had managed to survive would be shipped back to their district, the 
bodies removed, the weapons collected, and the doors locked until the 
following year. No maintenance. No cleanup. Wind and rain might 
wash away the bloodstains, but Capitol hands would not. 

Professor Sickle, their chaperone for the outing, ordered the 
mentors to leave their belongings in the vans when they arrived. 
Coriolanus stuffed the food-filled napkin in one of his front pants 
pockets and kept it covered with the hem of his jacket. As they 
stepped from the air-conditioning into the blazing sun, he saw the 
tributes standing in a line in handcuffs, heavily guarded by 
Peacekeepers. The mentors were directed to take their places beside 
their respective tributes, who’d been lined up numerically, so he was 
near the end with Lucy Gray. Only Jessup and his mentor, Lysistrata, 
who couldn’t tip the scales at a hundred pounds, were behind him. In 
front of him, Clemensia’s tribute, Reaper — the one who’d strangled 
him in the truck — stood glowering at the ground. If it came to a 
mentor-tribute showdown, the odds were not in Coriolanus’s favor. 

Despite her delicate appearance, Lysistrata had some grit. The 
daughter of the physicians who treated President Ravinstill, she’d 
been lucky to get a mentorship, and she’d apparently been working 
hard to connect with Jessup. “I brought you some cream for your 
neck,” Coriolanus heard her whisper. “But you must keep it hidden.” 
Jessup made a grunt of assent. “Pll put it in your pocket when I can.” 

The Peacekeepers removed the heavy bars from the entrance. The 


massive doors swung open, revealing a huge lobby lined with 


boarded-up booths and fly-specked posters advertising events from 
before the war. Holding their formation, the kids followed the soldiers 
deep within to the far side of the lobby. A bank of full-height 
turnstiles, each with three curved metal arms, stood covered in a thick 
layer of dust. They required a Capitol token for admittance, the same 
one still used for the price of a trolley fare. 

This entrance was for the poor people, Coriolanus thought. Or 
perhaps not poor. The word plebeian came to mind. The Snow family 
had entered the arena at another entrance, demarcated by a velvet 
rope. Certainly, their box could not be accessed with a trolley token. 
Unlike much of the arena, it had a roof, a retractable glass window, 
and air-conditioning that had made the hottest day comfortable. An 
Avox had been assigned to them, bringing food and drink and toys for 
him and Tigris. If he grew bored, he’d nap on the plush, cushioned 
seats. 

Peacekeepers posted at two turnstiles pumped tokens into the slots 
so each tribute and mentor could pass through simultaneously. At 
each rotation, a cheerful voice piped, “Enjoy the show!” 

“Can’t you override the ticket barrier?” asked Professor Sickle. 

“We could if we had the key, but no one seems to know where it 
is,” said a Peacekeeper. 

“Enjoy the show!” the turnstile told Coriolanus as he passed 
through. He gave the arm at his waist a backward push and realized 
that no exit was possible. His eyes traveled to the tops of the 


turnstiles, where iron bars filled the space to the arched doorway. He 


guessed the patrons of the cheap seats left the building through 
passages elsewhere. While that was probably seen as a plus for crowd 
dispersal, it did nothing to calm a jittery mentor on a questionable 
field trip. 

On the far side of the turnstiles, a squad of Peacekeepers marched 
into a passageway, guided only by the red glow of emergency lights 
on the floor. On either side, smaller arches leading to different seating 
levels were marked. The line of tributes and mentors fell into step, 
flanked by tight columns of Peacekeepers. As they moved into the 
gloom, Coriolanus took a page from Lysistrata’s book and used the 
opportunity to slip the napkin of food into Lucy Gray’s cuffed hands. 
It swiftly disappeared into her ruffled pocket. There. She was not 
going to starve to death on his watch. Her hand found his, 
intertwining their fingers and sending a buzz through his body at their 
closeness. At this small intimacy in the dark. He gave her hand a final 
squeeze and released it as they headed into the sunlight at the end of 
the passageway, where such a display would have been inexplicable. 

He’d been to the arena several times as a small boy, to see the 
circus, mostly, but also to cheer military displays under his father’s 
command. For the past nine years he’d watched at least part of the 
Games on television. But nothing prepared him for the sensation of 
walking out through the main gate, beneath the enormous scoreboard, 
and onto the field. Some of the mentors and tributes gasped at the 
sheer size of the place and the grandeur that defied even the decay. 


Staring up at the towering rows of seats made him feel diminished to 


the point of insignificance. A raindrop in a flood, a pebble in an 
avalanche. 

The sight of the camera crews brought him back to himself, and he 
adjusted his face to say that nothing much really impressed a Snow. 
Lucy Gray, who seemed more alert and moved better without the 
weight of the chains, gave a wave to Lepidus Malmsey, but like all the 
reporters, he remained stony-faced and didn’t engage. Their directive 
had been clear; gravity and retribution were the hallmarks of the day. 

Satyria’s use of the term tour had suggested a sightseeing 
excursion, and while he had not anticipated pleasure, he had not 
expected the palpable sadness of the place either. The Peacekeepers 
who’d been flanking them spread out as the kids dutifully followed 
the lead squad around the inside perimeter of the oval, forming a 
dusty, joyless parade. Coriolanus remembered the circus performers 
taking the same route, riding elephants and horses, bespangled and 
brimming with mirth. With the exception of Sejanus, probably all of 
his classmates would have been in the audience, too. Ironically, 
Arachne would have been in the box adjacent to his, dressed in a 
sequined costume and cheering at the top of her lungs. 

Coriolanus surveyed the arena, looking for anything that might be 
an advantage for Lucy Gray. The high wall that enclosed the field, 
keeping the audience above the action, had some promise. The 
damaged surface provided hand- and footholds, offering access to the 
seats for a nimble climber. Several of the gates spaced symmetrically 


around the wall looked compromised as well, but as he was unsure 


what lay beyond in the tunnels, he thought those should be 
approached with caution. Too easy to get trapped. The stands would 
definitely be her best bet, if she could climb up. He made mental 
notes for later. 

As the line began to stretch out, he initiated a whispered 
conversation with Lucy Gray. “It was awful this morning. Seeing you 
like that.” 

“Well, at least they fed us first,” she said. 

“Really?” Had his conversation with Satyria triggered that? 

“A couple of kids blacked out when they tried to round us up last 
night. I think they decided that if they want to have anyone left for 
their show, they’re going to have to feed us. Mostly bread and cheese. 
We got dinner, and breakfast, too. But don’t worry, I’ve got plenty of 
room left for whatever’s in my pocket.” She sounded more like her old 
self. “Was that you I heard singing?” 

“Oh. Yes,” he admitted. “They asked me to sing because they 
thought Arachne and I were such great friends. We weren’t. And Pm 
embarrassed you heard me.” 

“I like your voice. My daddy would’ve said it had real authority. 
Just didn’t much care for the song,” Lucy Gray replied. 

“Thanks. That means a lot, coming from you,” he said. 

She nudged him with her elbow. “I wouldn’t broadcast that. Most 
people here think I’m lower than a snake’s belly.” 

Coriolanus shook his head and grinned. 


“What?” she said. 


“You just have funny expressions. Not funny, per se, more 
colorful,” he told her. 

“Well, I don’t say ‘per se’ much, if that’s what you mean,” she 
quipped. 

“No, I like it. It makes the way I talk seem so stiff. What was it you 
called me that day in the zoo? Something about cake?” he 
remembered. 

“Oh, the cake with the cream? You don’t say that?” she asked. 
“Well, it’s a compliment. Where I come from, cake can be pretty dry. 
And cream’s as scarce as hen’s teeth.” 

For a moment he laughed, forgetting where they were, how 
depressing the backdrop. For a moment there was just her smile, the 
musical cadence of her voice, and the hint of flirtation. 


Then the world exploded. 


< 


Coriolanus knew bombs, and they terrified him. Even as the 
impact threw him off his feet and tossed him farther into the arena, 
his arms lifted to cover his head. When he hit the ground, he 
automatically flattened onto his belly, cheek pressed into the dust, 
one arm bent up to guard his exposed eye and ear. 

The first explosion, which seemed to have come from the main 
gate, initiated a chain of eruptions around the arena. Running was out 
of the question. It was all he could do to cling to the rumbling ground, 
hope for it to stop, and try to keep his panic in check. He entered 
what he and Tigris had nicknamed “bomb time,” that surreal period 
when moments stretched and contracted in ways that seemed to defy 
science. 

During the war, the Capitol had assigned every citizen a shelter 
near their residence. The Snows’ magnificent building had a basement 
level so sturdy and spacious it accommodated not only its residents 


but half the block. Unfortunately, the Capitol’s surveillance system 


depended heavily on electricity. With the power sketchy and the grid 
flickering on and off like a firefly due to rebel interference in District 
5, the sirens were unreliable, and they were often caught unawares 
with no time to retreat to the basement. At these times, he, Tigris, and 
the Grandma’am — unless she was singing the anthem — would hide 
under the dining table, an impressive thing carved from a single block 
of marble, which sat in an interior room. Even with the absence of 
windows and the solid rock over his head, Coriolanus’s muscles 
always went rigid with terror when he heard the whistling of the 
bombs, and it would be hours before he felt he could walk right. The 
streets weren’t safe either, nor the Academy. You could be bombed 
anywhere, but usually he had a better place to shelter than this. Now, 
naked to the attack, lying in the open air, he waited for the 
interminable “bomb time” to end and wondered how much damage 
his internal organs were incurring. 

No hovercraft. The realization bubbled up in his brain. There had 
been no hovercraft. These bombs had been planted, then? He could 
smell smoke, so some of them were probably incendiary. He pressed 
his daily handkerchief over his mouth and nose. Squinting through 
the black haze thickened with dirt from the arena, he could see Lucy 
Gray about fifteen feet away, curled up in a ball, forehead on the 
ground and fingertips lodged in her ears, which was the best she 
could do with the cuffs on. She coughed helplessly. 

“Cover your face! Use the napkin!” he called out. She didn’t look 


over but must have heard, because she rolled to her side and retrieved 


it from her pocket. The biscuits and chicken fell to the ground as she 
pressed the cloth to her face. He had a vague thought that this would 
not be conducive to her singing. 

A lull fooled him into thinking the episode had ended, but just as 
he lifted his head, a final explosion in the stands above him 
demolished what had once been a snack stand — that pink spun 
sugar, those caramel-coated apples — and burning debris rained down 
on him. Something struck his head hard, and the heavy weight of a 
beam landed diagonally across his back, pinning him to the ground. 

Stunned, Coriolanus lay almost senseless for a bit. The acrid smell 
of burning stung his nose, and he realized the beam was on fire. He 
tried to pull himself together and wriggle free, but the world swam 
and the peach pie turned sour in his stomach. 

“Help!” he cried. Similar pleas came from around him, but he 
couldn’t see the injured through the cloud. “Help!” 

The fire singed his hair, and with renewed effort he tried to 
struggle from under the beam, to no avail. A searing pain began to eat 
into his neck and shoulder as the horrifying realization that he was 
burning to death overtook him. He screamed, again and again, but 
seemed alone in a bubble of dark smoke and flaming rubble. Then he 
could make out a figure rising from the inferno. Lucy Gray said his 
name, then snapped her head around, something out of his view 
catching her attention. Her feet took a few steps away from him, then 
she hesitated, apparently torn. 


“Lucy Gray!” he pleaded in a ragged voice. “Please!” 


She gave a last look at whatever had tempted her and ran to his 
side. The beam shifted off his back but then slammed down again. It 
rose a second time, leaving him just enough room to drag himself 
from beneath it. She helped him to his feet, and with his arm slung 
across her shoulders, they limped away from the flames until they 
collapsed somewhere in the middle of the arena. 

At first, coughing and gagging required all his attention, but he 
slowly registered the pain in his head, the burns along his neck, back, 
and shoulders. Somehow his fingers were knotted in Lucy Gray’s 
scorched skirt, as if it were his lifeline. Her cuffed hands, visibly 
burned, curled nearby. 

The smoke settled enough that he could see the pattern the bombs 
had been planted in at intervals around the arena, with the mother 
lode of explosives placed at the entrance. So great was the damage 
there that he caught a glimpse of the street beyond and two forms 
fleeing the arena. Was that what had given Lucy Gray pause before 
she came to his aid? The possibility of escape? Other tributes had 
surely availed themselves of the opportunity. Yes, he heard the sirens 
now, the shouts from the street. 

Medics picked their way over the rubble and ran for the wounded. 
“It’s okay,” he told Lucy Gray. “Help is here.” Hands reached for him, 
settled him onto a stretcher. He released her ruffles, thinking there 
would be another stretcher for her, but as they carried him off, he 
could see a Peacekeeper force her to her stomach and jam the barrel 


of a gun into her neck, yelling a string of profanities at her. “Lucy 


Gray!” Coriolanus cried out. No one paid any attention to him. 

The blow to his head made concentration hard, but he was aware 
of the ambulance ride, banging through the doors to the same waiting 
area where he’d drunk his fizzy lemon soda just a day before, and 
then being moved onto a table under a bright light while a team of 
doctors tried to assess the damage. He wanted to sleep, but they kept 
pushing their faces into his and demanding answers, their stale lunch 
breath making him queasy again. Into machines, out of machines, 
needles jabbing him, and finally, blissfully, being allowed to drift off. 
Periodically throughout the night, someone would wake him and 
shine lights in his eyes. As long as he could answer a few basic 
questions, they let him fall back into oblivion. 

When he finally woke, really woke, on Sunday, the light through 
the window said afternoon, and the Grandma’am and Tigris were 
leaning over him with worried looks. He felt a warm reassurance. I’m 
not alone, he thought. I’m not in the arena. I’m safe. 

“Hi, Coryo,” said Tigris. “It’s us.” 

“Hello.” He attempted a smile. “You missed bomb time.” 

“Turns out it’s worse than being there,” said Tigris, “knowing you 
were going through it all alone.” 

“T wasn’t alone,” he said. The morphling and the concussion made 
it hard to recall things clearly. “Lucy Gray was there. She saved my 
life, I think.” He couldn’t quite get his mind around the idea. Sweet, 
but unsettling, too. 


Tigris gave his hand a squeeze. “I’m not surprised. She’s obviously 


a good person. Right from the beginning, she tried to protect you from 
the other tributes.” 

The Grandma’am needed more convincing. After he’d patched 
together a time line of the bombing for her, she came to this 
conclusion: “Well, like as not she decided the Peacekeepers would gun 
her down if she ran, but still, it shows some character. Perhaps, as she 
claims, she is not really district.” 

High praise indeed, or as high as the Grandma’am was likely to 
muster. 

As Tigris filled him in on the details he had missed, he realized 
how on edge this event had made the Capitol. What had happened — 
at least what the Capitol News claimed had happened — frightened 
citizens with both its immediate fallout and its ramifications for the 
future. They didn’t know who had set the bombs — rebels, yes, but 
from where? They could’ve been from any of the twelve districts, or a 
ragtag bunch that had escaped from District 13, or even, fate forbid, 
some long-dormant cell in the Capitol itself. The time line for the 
crime was baffling. Since the arena stood empty, locked, and ignored 
between Hunger Games, the bombs could’ve been placed six days or 
six months before. Security cameras covered the entrances around the 
oval, but the crumbling exterior made scaling the structure possible. 
They didn’t even know if the bombs had been triggered remotely or 
by a false step, but the unexpected losses shook the Capitol to its core. 
That the two tributes from District 6 had been killed by shrapnel 


caused little concern, but the same explosion had taken the lives of 


the Ring twins. Three mentors had been hospitalized — Coriolanus, 
and Androcles Anderson and Gaius Breen, who’d been assigned the 
District 9 tributes. His two classmates were in critical condition, Gaius 
having lost both his legs, and almost everyone else, whether mentor, 
tribute, or Peacekeeper, had needed medical care of some sort. 

Coriolanus felt bewildered. He’d genuinely liked Pollo and Didi, 
how they’d doted on each other, how upbeat they’d been. Somewhere 
nearby, Androcles, who aspired to be a reporter at Capitol News like 
his mother, and Gaius, a Citadel brat with an endless supply of 
terrible jokes, were barely hanging on to life. 

“What about Lysistrata? Is she all right?” She’d been behind him. 

The Grandma’am looked uncomfortable. “Oh, her. She’s fine. She’s 
going around saying that big, ugly boy from District Twelve protected 
her by throwing his body over her, but who knows? The Vickers 
family loves the spotlight.” 

“Do they?” asked Coriolanus skeptically. He could not recall, not 
once, ever seeing a Vickers in the spotlight, except for a brief annual 
news conference in which they gave President Ravinstill a clean bill of 
health. Lysistrata was a self-contained, efficient person who never 
drew attention to herself. To even suggest she could be put in the 
same class as Arachne rubbed him the wrong way. 

“She only made one quick statement to a reporter right after the 
bombing. I expect it was the truth, Grandma’am,” said Tigris. 
“Perhaps the people of District Twelve are not quite so bad as you 


paint them. Both Jessup and Lucy Gray have behaved bravely.” 


“Have you seen Lucy Gray? On the television, I mean. Does she 
look all right?” he asked. 

“T don’t know, Coryo. They haven’t shown any footage of the zoo. 
But she’s not on the list of the dead tributes,” said Tigris. 

“Are there more? Than the ones from District Six?” Coriolanus 
didn’t want to sound morbid, but they were Lucy Gray’s competition. 

“Yes, some others died after the bombing,” Tigris told him. 

Both pairs from Districts 1 and 2 had made for the hole blown 
open near the entrance. The District 1 kids had been shot dead, the 
girl from 2 had made it to the river and leaped over the wall only to 
die in the fall, and Marcus had disappeared completely, leaving a 
desperate, dangerous, powerful boy loose somewhere in the city. A 
displaced manhole cover suggested that he might have climbed 
underground to the Transfer, the network of tracks and roadways 
built under the Capitol, but no one knew for sure. 

“T suppose they see the arena as a symbol,” said the Grandma’am. 
“Just as they did during the war. The worst part is that it took almost 
twenty seconds before they cut the transmission to the districts, so no 
doubt it was a cause for celebration. Beasts that they are.” 

“But they say hardly anyone in the districts saw it, Grandma’am,” 
Tigris countered. “The people there don’t like to watch the Hunger 
Games coverage.” 

“It will only take a handful to get the word out,” said the 
Grandma’am. “It’s just the kind of story that catches fire.” 


The doctor who’d talked to Coriolanus after the snake attack 


entered, introducing himself as Dr. Wane. He sent Tigris and the 
Grandma’am home and gave Coriolanus a quick checkup, explaining 
the nature of the concussion (fairly mild) and the burns, which were 
responding well to treatment. It would take some time to heal 
completely, but if he behaved himself and continued to improve, he’d 
be released in a couple of days. 

“Do you know how my tribute is doing? Her hands were burned 
rather badly,” said Coriolanus. Each time he thought of her he felt a 
stab of uneasiness, but then the morphling would wrap around it like 
cotton wool. 

“T wouldn’t know,” said the doctor. “But they’ve got a top-notch 
veterinarian over there. I expect she’ll be fine by the time they’ve got 
the Games up and running. But that’s not your concern, young man. 
Your concern is to get well, and for that, you need some sleep.” 

Coriolanus was happy to oblige. He slipped back into sleep and 
didn’t fully come to until Monday morning. With his aching head and 
battered body, he felt in no rush to leave the hospital. The air- 
conditioning eased the burns on his skin, and generous portions of 
bland food appeared regularly. He caught up on the news on the 
large-screen television while he sipped as much fizzy lemon drink as 
he could hold. A double funeral was to be held for the Ring twins the 
following day. The manhunt for Marcus continued. Both the Capitol 
and the districts were under heightened security. 

Three mentors dead, three hospitalized — really, four if you 


counted Clemensia. Six tributes dead, one escaped, several wounded. 


If Dr. Gaul wanted a makeover for the Hunger Games, she’d gotten it. 

In the afternoon, the parade of visitors began with Festus, sporting 
a sling on his arm and a few stitches where a shard of metal had 
sliced his cheek. He said that the Academy had canceled classes, but 
the students were supposed to show up the next morning for the 
Rings’ funeral. He choked up at the mention of the twins, and 
Coriolanus wondered if he would have a more emotional response 
himself once they removed the morphling drip, which muted both 
pain and joy. Satyria popped in with some bakery cookies, relayed the 
well-wishes of the faculty, and told him that while the incident was 
unfortunate, it could only improve his chances for a prize. After a bit, 
an uninjured Sejanus appeared with Coriolanus’s book bag from the 
van and a stack of his mother’s delicious meat loaf sandwiches. He 
had little to say on the subject of his runaway tribute. Finally, Tigris 
came without the Grandma’am, who’d remained home to rest but had 
sent a clean uniform for him to wear on discharge. If there were 
cameras, she wanted him to look his best. They split the sandwiches 
and then Tigris stroked his aching head until he dozed off, just as she 
had when headaches plagued him as a child. 

When someone awakened him in the wee hours of Tuesday, he 
supposed a nurse had come to check his vital signs, then started at the 
sight of Clemensia’s ravaged face above his. The snake venom, or the 
antidote perhaps, had left her golden brown skin peeling and the 
whites of her eyes the color of egg yolks. But much worse was the 


twitching that affected her entire body, causing her face to grimace, 


her tongue to jut periodically from her mouth, and her hands to jerk 
away even as they reached for his. 

“Shh!” she hissed. “I shouldn’t be here. Don’t tell them I came. But 
what are they saying? Why has no one come to see me? Do my 
parents know what happened? Do they think I’m dead?” 

Groggy from sleep and medication, Coriolanus couldn’t quite wrap 
his mind around what she was saying. “Your parents? But they’ve 
been here. I saw them.” 

“No. No one has seen me!” she cried. “I have to get out of here, 
Coryo. I’m afraid she’s going to kill me. It’s not safe. We’re not safe!” 

“What? Who’s going to kill you? You’re not talking sense,” he said. 

“Dr. Gaul, of course!” She clutched his arm, awakening his burns. 
“You know, you were there!” 

Coriolanus tried to free her fingers. “You need to go back to your 
room. You're sick, Clemmie. It’s the snakebites. They’re making you 
imagine things.” 

“Did I imagine this?” She ripped back the opening of her hospital 
gown to reveal a patch of skin that extended over her chest and down 
one shoulder. Mottled with bright blue, pink, and yellow scales, it had 
the reptilian quality of the snakes in the tank. When he gasped, she 
shrieked, “And it’s spreading! It’s spreading!” 

Two of the hospital staff had her then, lifting her up and carrying 
her from the room. He lay awake the rest of the night, thinking of the 
snakes, and her skin, and the glass cases of Avoxes with their 


gruesome animal modifications in Dr. Gaul’s lab. Is that where 


Clemensia was headed? If not, why hadn’t her parents seen her? Why 
did no one except him seem to know what had happened? If 
Clemensia died, would he disappear as well, the only witness? Had he 
put Tigris at risk by telling her the story? 

The pleasant cocoon of the hospital now seemed an insidious trap 
shrinking to suffocate him. No one checked on him as the hours crept 
by, which added to his distress. Finally, just as dawn was breaking, 
Dr. Wane appeared by his bedside. “I hear Clemensia visited you last 
night,” he said cheerfully. “Did she give you a scare?” 

“A bit.” Coriolanus tried to appear nonchalant. 

“She’ll be all right. The venom causes a lot of unusual side effects 
as it works itself out of the system. That’s why we haven’t let her 
parents see her. They think she’s quarantined with a highly contagious 
flu. She’ll be presentable in a day or two,” the doctor told him. “You 
can go visit her if you’re up to it. Might cheer her up.” 

“All right,” said Coriolanus, slightly reassured. But he could not 
unsee what he’d seen, not at the hospital, and not at the lab. The 
removal of the morphling drip brought all the fuzzy edges into sharp 
relief. His suspicions tainted every comfort, from the large breakfast 
of hotcakes and bacon, to the basket of fresh fruit and sweets from the 
Academy, to the news that his performance of the anthem would be 
replayed for the Rings’ funeral, as both a mark of its quality and a nod 
to his own sacrifices. 

The pre-funeral coverage started at seven, and by nine the student 


body again filled the stairs in front of the Academy. Just over a week 


ago, he’d felt he was falling into insignificance with his District 12 girl 
assignment, and now he was being honored for his courage in front of 
the entire nation. He’d expected them to show a tape of him singing, 
but instead his holographic self appeared behind the podium, and 
while it was a little watery at first, it settled into a clean, crisp image. 
People were always saying he resembled his handsome father more 
every day, but for the first time he could really see it. Not just the 
eyes but the jawline, the hair, the proud carriage. And Lucy Gray was 
right; his voice did have real authority. Overall, the performance was 
quite impressive. 

The Capitol doubled the efforts made for Arachne’s funeral, which 
Coriolanus felt appropriate for the twins. More speeches, more 
Peacekeepers, more banners. He didn’t mind seeing the twins praised, 
even extravagantly, and wished they somehow could’ve known his 
hologram had opened the event. The dead tribute count had 
escalated, with the two tributes from District 9 having died from their 
injuries. Apparently, the veterinarian had done her best, but her 
repeated requests to admit them to the hospital had been refused. 
Their scarred bodies, along with what remained of the District 6 
tributes, were draped over the backs of horses and paraded down 
Scholars Road. The two tributes from District 1 and the girl from 
District 2, as befitting their cowardly escape attempt, were dragged 
behind them. Then came a pair of those caged trucks Coriolanus had 
ridden in on his way to the zoo, one for the boys and one for the girls. 


He strained to see Lucy Gray but couldn’t locate her, which added to 


his worries. Was she lying inert on the floor, overcome by injuries and 
hunger? 

As the twins’ matching silver coffins came into focus, all he could 
think of was this silly game they’d made up on the playground during 
the war called Ring-around-the-Rings. The rest of the kids would 
chase down Didi and Pollo and then grab hands, forming a circle 
around them and trapping them. It always ended with the whole lot of 
them, Rings included, laughing their heads off in a heap on the 
ground. Oh, to be seven again, in a happy pile with his friends, with 
nutritional crackers waiting at his desk. 

After lunch, Dr. Wane said he could be released if he promised to 
stay calm and get bed rest, and as the charms of the hospital had 
diminished, he changed into his clean uniform at once. Tigris 
collected him and accompanied him home on the trolley, but then had 
to return to work. Both he and the Grandma’am spent the afternoon 
napping, and he awoke to a nice casserole Sejanus’s ma had sent over. 

At Tigris’s urging he went to bed with the sun, but sleep eluded 
him. Every time he closed his eyes, he’d see the flames all around, feel 
the trembling of the earth, smell the choking black smoke. Lucy Gray 
had been nibbling around the edges of his thoughts, but now he could 
think of no one else. How was she? Healing and fed, or suffering and 
starving in that awful monkey house? While he had been lying in the 
air-conditioned hospital with his morphling drip, had the veterinarian 
attended to her hands? Had the smoke damaged that remarkable 


voice? In helping him, had she ruined her chances for sponsors in the 


arena? He felt some embarrassment when he thought of his terror 
under the beam, but even more so when he remembered what had 
followed. On Capitol TV, the coverage they’d shown of the bombing 
had been obscured by the smoke. But did it exist? Footage of her 
rescuing him and, much worse, of him clinging to her ruffled skirt as 
they waited for help to come? 

His hand fumbled in the drawer of his nightstand and found his 
mother’s compact. As he inhaled the rose-scented powder, his 
thoughts quieted a bit, but restlessness drove him from his bed. For 
the next few hours, he wandered the apartment, looking out at the 
night sky, down at the Corso, into the neighbors’ windows across the 
way. At some point he found himself up on the roof amid the 
Grandma’am’s roses and didn’t remember having climbed the stairs to 
the garden. The fresh night air perfumed by the flowers helped, but 
soon brought on a bout of shivering that made everything hurt again. 

Tigris found him sitting in the kitchen a few hours before dawn. 
She made tea and they ate the remainder of the casserole straight 
from the pan. The savory layers of meat, potato, and cheese consoled 
him, as did Tigris’s gentle reminder that the situation with Lucy Gray 
was not of his making. They were both, after all, still children whose 
lives were dictated by powers above them. 

Somewhat comforted, he managed to doze for a few hours before 
a phone call from Satyria woke him. She encouraged him to attend 
school that morning if he could manage. Another mentor-tribute 


meeting had been scheduled with the idea of working toward the 


interviews, which would now be on a completely voluntary basis. 

Later at the Academy, as he looked down from the balcony into 
Heavensbee Hall, the empty chairs rattled him. He knew, in his head, 
that eight tributes had died, that one was missing, but he’d not 
envisioned how that would ripple through the pattern of the twenty- 
four little tables, leaving a jagged, disconcerting mess. No tributes at 
all from Districts 1, 2, 6, or 9, and only one from 10. Most of the kids 
who remained were injured, and all looked unwell. As the mentors 
joined their assignees, the losses became even more pronounced. Six 
mentors were either dead or hospitalized, and those partnered with 
the escapees of Districts 1 and 2 had no tributes at their tables and 
therefore no reason to show up. Livia Cardew had been vocal about 
this turn of events, demanding new tributes be brought from the 
districts, or at least that she be given Reaper, the boy assigned to 
Clemensia, who everyone thought had been hospitalized with the flu. 
Her wishes had not been accommodated, and Reaper sat alone at his 
table, a bandage stained with rusty dried blood wrapped around his 
head. 

As Coriolanus took the seat opposite her, Lucy Gray didn’t even 
attempt a smile. A ragged cough racked her chest, and soot from the 
fire still clung to her clothing. The veterinarian had exceeded 
Coriolanus’s expectations, though, as the skin on her hands was 
healing nicely. 

“Hi,” he said, scooting a nut butter sandwich and two of Satyria’s 


cookies across the table. 


“Hey,” she said hoarsely. Any attempt at flirtation or even 
camaraderie had been abandoned. She patted the sandwich but 
seemed too tired to eat it. “Thanks.” 

“No, thank you for saving my life.” He said it lightly, but as he 
gazed into her eyes, the levity leached away. 

“Is that what you’re telling people?” she asked. “That I saved your 
life?” 

He had said as much to Tigris and the Grandma’am and then, 
perhaps unsure what to do with the information, let it drift from his 
thoughts like a dream. Now, with the empty seats of the fallen around 
them, the memory of how she’d rescued him in the arena demanded 
his attention, and he could not ignore its significance. If Lucy Gray 
had not helped him, he would be utterly, irrevocably dead. Another 
shiny coffin dripping flowers. Another empty chair. When he spoke 
again, the words caught in his throat before he forced them out. “I 
told my family. Really. Thank you, Lucy Gray.” 

“Well, I had some time on my hands,” she said, tracing the frosted 
flower on a cookie with a shaky forefinger. “Pretty cookies.” 

Then came confusion. If she had saved his life, he owed her, what? 
A sandwich and two cookies? That was how he was repaying her. For 
his life. Which apparently he held quite cheaply. The truth was, he 
owed her everything. He felt the blush burn over his cheeks. “You 
could have run. And if you had, I would have gone up in flames 
before they reached me.” 


“Run, huh? Seemed like a lot of effort to get shot,” she said. 


Coriolanus shook his head. “You can joke, but it won’t change 
what you did for me. I hope I can repay you in some way.” 

“T hope so, too,” she said. 

In those few words he sensed a shift in their dynamic. As her 
mentor, he’d been the gracious giver of gifts, always to be met with 
gratitude. Now she’d upended things by giving him a gift beyond 
compare. On the surface, everything looked the same. Chained girl, 
boy offering food, Peacekeepers guarding that status quo. But deep 
down, things could never be the same between them. He would 
always be in her debt. She had the right to demand things. 

“I don’t know how,” he admitted. 

Lucy Gray glanced around the room, taking in her wounded 
competitors. Then she looked him in the eye, and impatience tinged 


her voice. “You could start by thinking I can actually win.” 


PART Il 


“THE PRIZE” 


< 


Lucy Gray’s words stung but, on reflection, were well deserved. 
Coriolanus had never really considered her a victor in the Games. It 
had never been part of his strategy to make her one. He had only 
wished that her charm and appeal would rub off on him and make 
him a success. Even his encouragement to sing for sponsors was an 
attempt to prolong the attention she brought him. Only a moment 
ago, her healed hands were good news because she could use them to 
play the guitar on interview night, not to defend herself from an 
attack in the arena. The fact that she mattered to him, as he’d claimed 
in the zoo, only made things worse. He should’ve been trying to 
preserve her life, to help her become the victor, no matter the odds. 

“I meant what I said about you being the cake with the cream,” 
Lucy Gray said. “You’re the only one who even bothered to show up. 
You and your friend Sejanus. You two acted like we were human 
beings. But the only way you can really repay me now is if you help 


me survive this thing.” 


“T agree.” Stepping up made him feel a bit better. “From now on, 
we're in it to win.” 

Lucy Gray reached out. “Shake on that?” 

Coriolanus gave her hand a careful shake. “You have my word.” 
The challenge energized him. “Step one: I think of a strategy.” 

“We think of a strategy,” she corrected. But she smiled and bit into 
the sandwich. 

“We think of a strategy.” He did the math again. “You’ve only got 
fourteen competitors left, unless they find Marcus.” 

“If you can keep me alive a few more days, I might just win by 
default,” she said. 

Coriolanus looked around the hall at her broken, sickly 
competitors, draped in chains, which encouraged him until he 
admitted that Lucy Gray’s condition wasn’t much better. Still, with 
Districts 1 and 2 out of play, Jessup watching over her, and the new 
sponsorship program, her odds were vastly improved from what 
they’d been when she’d arrived in the Capitol. Perhaps, if he could 
keep her fed, she could run and hide somewhere in the arena while 
the others fought it out or starved to death. “I have to ask one thing,” 
he said. “If it came to it, would you kill someone?” 

Lucy Gray chewed, weighing the question. “Maybe in self- 
defense.” 

“Its the Hunger Games. It’s all self-defense,” he said. “But maybe 
it’s best if you run away from the other tributes, and we get you 


sponsors for food. Wait it out a bit.” 


“Yeah, that’s a better strategy for me,” she agreed. “Enduring 
horrible things is one of my talents.” A dry bit of bread set her to 
coughing. 

Coriolanus passed her a water bottle from his book bag. “They’re 
still doing the interviews, but on a voluntary basis. Are you up for it?” 

“Are you kidding? I’ve got a song that was made for this whiskey 
voice,” she said. “You find me a guitar?” 

“No. But I will today,” he promised. “Someone must have one I 
can borrow. If we can get you some sponsors, it will go a long way 
toward you getting that victory.” 

She began to talk with a bit of animation about what she might 
sing. They’d only been allotted ten minutes, though, and the brief 
meeting ended with Professor Sickle ordering the mentors back to the 
high biology lab. 

Following what had to be heightened security measures, 
Peacekeepers escorted them, and Dean Highbottom checked off their 
names as they filed to their places. The able-bodied mentors of the 
dead and missing tributes, including Livia and Sejanus, already sat at 
the lab tables, watching Dr. Gaul drop carrots into the rabbit’s cage. 
Coriolanus’s skin broke into a sweat at the sight of her, so close, and 
so crazy. 

“Hippity, hoppity, carrot or stick? Everyone’s dying and 
youre . . .” She turned to them expectantly, and everyone but Sejanus 
averted their gaze. 


“Feeling sick,” said Sejanus. 


Dr. Gaul laughed. “It’s the compassionate one. Where’s your 
tribute, boy? Any clue?” 

Capitol News had continued coverage of the manhunt for Marcus, 
but it was less frequent now. The official word was that he was 
trapped down in a remote level of the Transfer, where he’d be 
apprehended soon. The city had relaxed, the general consensus being 
that he’d either died or would be captured any moment. At any rate, 
he seemed more bent on escaping than rising out of the Transfer to 
murder innocents in the Capitol. 

“Possibly on his way to freedom,” said Sejanus in a strained voice. 
“Possibly captured and under wraps. Possibly injured and hiding. 
Possibly dead. I’ve no idea. Do you?” 

Coriolanus couldn’t help admiring his pluck. Of course, Sejanus 
didn’t know how dangerous Dr. Gaul could be. He might end up ina 
cage with a pair of parakeet wings and an elephant’s trunk if he 
wasn’t careful. 

“No, don’t answer,” Sejanus spat out. “He’s either dead or about to 
be, when you catch him and drag him through the streets in chains.” 

“That’s our right,” Dr. Gaul countered. 

“No, it isn’t! I don’t care what you say. You’ve no right to starve 
people, to punish them for no reason. No right to take away their life 
and freedom. Those are things everyone is born with, and they’re not 
yours for the taking. Winning a war doesn’t give you that right. 
Having more weapons doesn’t give you that right. Being from the 


Capitol doesn’t give you that right. Nothing does. Oh, I don’t even 


know why I came here today.” With that, Sejanus sprang up and 
bolted for the door. When he tried the handle, it wouldn’t turn. He 
jiggled it and then confronted Dr. Gaul. “Locking us in now? It’s like 
our own little monkey house.” 

“You have not been dismissed,” said Dr. Gaul. “Sit down, boy.” 

“No.” Sejanus said it quietly, but it still caused several people to 
jump. 

After a pause, Dean Highbottom intervened. “It’s locked from the 
outside. The Peacekeepers have orders to leave us undisturbed until 
notified. Sit down, please.” 

“Or should we have them chaperone you somewhere else?” 
suggested Dr. Gaul. “I think your father’s offices are nearby.” Clearly, 
despite her insistence on calling him boy, she’d known exactly who 
Sejanus was all along. 

Sejanus burned with anger and humiliation, unwilling or unable to 
move. He just stood there, staring down Dr. Gaul, until the tension 
became unbearable. 

“There’s an empty seat by me.” The words came unbidden from 
Coriolanus’s mouth. 

The offer distracted Sejanus, and then he seemed to deflate. He 
took a deep breath, walked back down the aisle, and slid onto the 
stool. One hand clenched the strap on his book bag, while the other 
formed a fist on the table. 

Coriolanus wished he’d kept quiet. He noticed Dean Highbottom 


giving him a quizzical look and busied himself by opening his 


notebook and uncapping his pen. 

“Your emotions are running high,” Dr. Gaul told the class. “I 
understand. I do. But you must learn to harness and contain them. 
Wars are won with heads, not hearts.” 

“T thought the war was over,” said Livia. She seemed angry, too, 
but not in the same way as Sejanus. Coriolanus guessed she was just 
peeved about losing her strapping tribute. 

“Did you? Even after your experience in the arena?” asked Dr. 
Gaul. 

“I did,” interjected Lysistrata. “And if the war is over, then 
technically the killing should be over, shouldn’t it?” 

“Pm beginning to think it will never be over,” conceded Festus. 
“The districts will always hate us, and we’ll always hate them.” 

“T think you might be onto something there,” said Dr. Gaul. “Let’s 
consider for a moment that the war is a constant. The conflict may 
ebb and flow, but it will never really cease. Then what should be our 
goal?” 

“You’re saying it can’t be won?” asked Lysistrata. 

“Let’s say it can’t,” said Dr. Gaul. “What’s our strategy then?” 

Coriolanus pressed his lips together to keep from blurting out the 
answer. So obvious. Too obvious. But he knew Tigris was right about 
avoiding Dr. Gaul, even if it might bring praise. As the class chewed 
over the question, she paced up and down the aisle, finally coming to 
a stop at his table. “Mr. Snow? Any thoughts on what we should do 


with our endless war?” 


He comforted himself with the thought that she was old and no 
one lived forever. 

“Mr. Snow?” she persisted. He felt like he was the rabbit being 
prodded by her metal rod. “Want to take a wild guess?” 

“We control it,” he said quietly. “If the war’s impossible to end, 
then we have to control it indefinitely. Just as we do now. With the 
Peacekeepers occupying the districts, with strict laws, and with 
reminders of who’s in charge, like the Hunger Games. In any scenario, 
it’s preferable to have the upper hand, to be the victor rather than the 
defeated.” 

“Though, in our case, decidedly less moral,” Sejanus muttered. 

“It’s not immoral to defend ourselves,” Livia shot back. “And who 
wouldn’t rather be the victor than the defeated?” 

“I don’t know that I have much interest in being either,” said 
Lysistrata. 

“But that wasn’t an option,” Coriolanus reminded her, “given the 
question. Not if you think about it.” 

“Not if you think about it, eh, Casca?” said Dr. Gaul as she headed 
back up the aisle. “A little thought can save a lot of lives.” 

Dean Highbottom doodled on the list. Maybe Highbottom’s just as 
much a rabbit as I am, Coriolanus thought, and wondered if he was 
wasting his time worrying about him. 

“But take heart,” Dr. Gaul continued cheerfully. “Like most of life’s 
circumstances, war has its ups and downs. And that’s your next 


assignment. Write me an essay on everything attractive about war. 


Everything you loved about it.” 

Many of his classmates looked up in surprise, but not Coriolanus. 
The woman had set snakes on Clemensia for fun. Clearly, she relished 
witnessing pain and probably assumed they all did. 

Lysistrata frowned. “Loved about it?” 

“That shouldn’t take long,” said Festus. 

“Ts it a group project?” asked Livia. 

“No, individual. The problem with group assignments is that one 
person usually does all the work,” said Dr. Gaul, giving Coriolanus a 
wink that made his skin crawl. “But feel free to pick your families’ 
brains. You might be surprised. Be as honest as you dare. Bring them 
to Sunday’s mentor meeting.” She pulled some more carrots out of her 
pocket, turned back to the rabbit, and seemed to forget about them. 

When they were released, Sejanus followed Coriolanus down the 
hall. “You have to stop rescuing me.” 

Coriolanus shook his head. “I can’t seem to control it. It’s like a 
tic.” 

“I don’t know what ld do if you weren’t here.” Sejanus’s voice 
dropped. “That woman is evil. She should be stopped.” 

Coriolanus felt any attempt to dethrone Dr. Gaul would be futile, 
but he adopted a sympathetic manner. “You tried.” 

“T failed. I wish my family could just go home. Back to District 
Two, where we belong. Not that they’d want us,” said Sejanus. “Being 
Capitol is going to kill me.” 


“Its a bad time, Sejanus. With the Games and the bombing. No 


one is at their best. Don’t do anything rash like running off.” As 
Coriolanus clapped him on the shoulder, he thought, I might need a 
favor. 

“Running off where? How? With what?” said Sejanus. “But I really 
do appreciate your support. I wish I could think of some way to thank 
you.” 

There was actually something Coriolanus needed. “You don’t 
happen to have a guitar I could borrow, do you?” 

The Plinths did not, so he devoted the rest of Wednesday 
afternoon to fulfilling his promise to Lucy Gray. He asked around in 
school, but the closest thing he got was a maybe from Vipsania Sickle, 
mentor of the District 7 boy, Treech, who’d juggled the walnuts in the 
ZOO. 

“Oh, I think we used to have one during the war,” she told him. 
“Let me check and get back to you. Pd love to hear your girl sing 
again!” He didn’t know whether or not to believe her; the Sickles did 
not impress him as a musical crowd. Vipsania had inherited her aunt 
Agrippina’s love of competition, and for all he knew, she was trying to 
spoil Lucy Gray’s performance. But two could play at that game, so he 
told her she was a lifesaver and then continued his search. 

After coming up empty-handed at the Academy, he thought of 
Pluribus Bell. Possibly, he still had instruments lying around from his 
nightclub days. 

The minute the door in the back alley opened, Boa Bell wove 


between Coriolanus’s legs, purring like an engine. At seventeen, she 


was getting long in the tooth, and he used care as he lifted her into his 
arms. 

“Ah, she’s always happy to see an old friend,” Pluribus said, and 
invited Coriolanus in. 

The defeat of the districts had made little difference to Pluribus’s 
trade, as he still secured a living dealing in black market goods, even 
if they now had a more luxurious bent. Decent liquor, makeup, and 
tobacco were still hard to get hold of. District 1 had slowly turned its 
attention to supplying the Capitol with pleasures, but not everyone 
had access to them, and they came at a high price. The Snows were no 
longer regular customers, but Tigris made occasional visits to sell him 
the ration coupons that would allow them to buy meat or coffee, 
which they usually couldn’t afford. People were happy to pay for the 
privilege of buying an extra leg of lamb. 

Known for his discretion, Pluribus remained one of the few people 
Coriolanus didn’t need to pretend to be wealthy around. He knew the 
Snows’ situation but never blabbed about it or made the family feel 
inferior. Today he poured Coriolanus a glass of cold tea, filled a plate 
with cakes, and offered him a chair. They chatted about the bombing 
and how it brought up bad memories of the war, but soon their talk 
turned to Lucy Gray, who’d made a very favorable impression on 
Pluribus. 

“If I had a few like her, I might think of opening the club back 
up,” Pluribus mused. “Oh, Id still sell my pretties, but I could stage 


shows on the weekends. The truth is, we were all so busy killing each 


other that we forgot how to have fun. She knows, though. Your girl.” 

Coriolanus told him the plan for the interview and asked if there 
might be a guitar they could borrow. “We’d take good care of it, I 
promise. I’d keep it at home except when she’s playing, and return it 
right after the show.” 

Pluribus needed no coaxing. “You know, I packed everything away 
after the bombs got Cyrus. Silly, really. As if I could forget the love of 
my life so easily.” He got to his feet and moved a stack of perfume 
crates, revealing an old closet door. Inside, lovingly arranged on 
shelves, was a variety of musical instruments. Pluribus pulled out a 
surprisingly dust-free leather case and lifted the lid. A pleasant smell 
of old wood and polish hit Coriolanus’s nose as he looked at the 
gleaming, golden thing inside. The body shaped like a woman’s, the 
six strings running up the long neck to the tuning pegs. He strummed 
it lightly with his finger. Even though it was badly out of tune, the 
richness of the sound went right through him. 

Coriolanus shook his head. “This one’s too nice. I wouldn’t want to 
risk damaging it.” 

“I trust you. And I trust your girl. Kind of like to hear what she 
does with it.” Pluribus closed the case and held it out. “You take it 
and tell her I’ve got my fingers crossed for her. It’s good to have a 
friend in the audience.” 

Coriolanus took the guitar gratefully. “Thank you, Pluribus. I hope 
you do reopen the club. I’ll be a steady customer.” 


“Just like your father,” said Pluribus with a chuckle. “When he 


was about your age, he used to close down this place every night with 
that rascal Casca Highbottom.” 

Every part of that sounded nonsensical. His stern father, so 
humorless and strict, living it up at a nightclub? And with, of all 
people, Dean Highbottom? He’d never heard them mentioned 
together, although they were about the same age. “You’re kidding, 
right?” 

“Oh, no. They were a pair of wild things,” said Pluribus. But 
before he could elaborate, he was interrupted by a customer. 

With great care, Coriolanus carried his prize home and laid it on 
his dresser. Tigris and the Grandma’am oohed and aahed over it, but 
he couldn’t wait to see Lucy Gray’s reaction. Whatever instrument 
she’d had back in District 12 could never compare with Pluribus’s. 

His head ached enough to go to bed at sundown, but it took a 
while to fall asleep, so preoccupied was he with the relationship 
between his father and “that rascal Casca Highbottom.” If they had 
been friends, as Pluribus had suggested, none of the goodwill 
remained. He couldn’t help thinking that, however close they’d been 
during their clubbing days, things hadn’t ended well. As soon as he 
could, he’d press Pluribus for more details. 

The next few days gave him no such opportunity, though, as they 
were devoted to readying Lucy Gray for the interview, which had 
been set for Saturday night. Each mentor-tribute pair had been 
assigned a classroom to work in. Two Peacekeepers were on guard, 


but Lucy Gray had been freed of both chains and cuffs. Tigris had 


provided an old dress of hers, saying that if Lucy Gray was willing to 
trust her, she could wash and iron her rainbow ruffles for the 
broadcast. Lucy Gray hesitated, but when he gave her Tigris’s other 
gift, a small cake of soap shaped like a flower and smelling of 
lavender, she had him turn his back while she changed. 

The loving way she handled the guitar, as if it were a sentient 
being, gave him a hint of a past so unlike his own he had trouble 
imagining it. She took her time tuning the instrument and then played 
song after song, seemingly as starved for the music as for the meals he 
brought. He pumped her with all the food they could spare, along 
with bottles of tea sweetened with corn syrup to soothe her throat. 
Her vocal cords were much improved by the time the big night 
arrived. 

The Hunger Games: A Night of Interviews kicked off in front of a live 
audience in the Academy auditorium while broadcasting throughout 
Panem. Hosted by the clownish Capitol TV weatherman, Lucretius 
“Lucky” Flickerman, it seemed both glaringly inappropriate and 
surprisingly welcome on the heels of all the killing. Lucky was dressed 
in a high-collared blue suit with rhinestone accents, his gelled hair 
was dusted in coppery powder, and his mood could only be described 
as merry. The back curtain of the stage, resurrected from some prewar 
production, depicted a starry sky and twinkled accordingly. 

After a jaunty rendition of the anthem played, Lucky welcomed 
the audience to a brand-new Hunger Games for a brand-new decade, 


one in which every Capitol citizen could participate by sponsoring the 


tribute of their choice. In the chaos of the past few days, the best Dr. 
Gaul’s team had been able to do was offer a half dozen basic food 
items the sponsors could send to the tributes. 

“You’re wondering, what’s in it for you?” chirped Lucky. Then he 
explained the gambling, a simple system with win, place, and show 
options familiar to those who’d played the ponies before the war. 
Anyone who wanted to either send a monetary gift to feed a tribute, 
or place a bet on one, needed only to visit their local post office, 
where the staff would be happy to help. Starting tomorrow, they 
would be open from eight in the morning until eight at night, giving 
people time to place their bets before the Hunger Games kicked off on 
Monday. After he’d introduced the new wrinkle in the Games, Lucky 
had little to do but read the cue cards with the material that wrapped 
around the interviews, but he managed to work in a few magic tricks, 
like pouring different-colored wine from the same bottle to toast the 
Capitol and having a pigeon fly out of his bell-sleeved jacket. 

Of the mentor-tribute pairs who were capable of participating, 
only half had something to present. Coriolanus asked to go last, 
knowing nothing could compete with Lucy Gray but wanting to be the 
closer for effect. The other mentors offered up background 
information about their tributes while trying to throw in something 
memorable and urging the public to sponsor them. To demonstrate his 
strength, Lysistrata sat primly in her chair while Jessup lifted her over 
his head easily. Io Jasper’s District 3 boy, Circ, said he could start a 


fire with his glasses, and she, with her scientific know-how, suggested 


various angles and times of day that would facilitate the task. Snooty 
Juno Phipps admitted she’d been disappointed to get tiny Bobbin. 
Didn’t a Phipps, a member of a founding family of the Capitol, 
deserve better than District 8? But he’d won her over when he told 
her five different ways he could kill someone with a sewing needle. 
Coral, Festus’s District 4 girl, made a case for her ability to handle a 
trident, a weapon that was typically available in the arena. She 
demonstrated with an old broomstick, wielding it in a sinuous fashion 
that left little doubt of her expertise. The dairy heiress Domitia 
Whimsiwick’s familiarity with cows turned out to be an asset. Bubbly 
by nature, she got her muscular District 10 tribute, Tanner, so 
engaged in talking about slaughterhouse techniques that Lucky had to 
cut them off when they ran over. Arachne had been wrong about the 
appeal of that topic, because Tanner garnered the most applause of 
the evening so far. 

Coriolanus listened with one ear as he prepared to take the stage 
with Lucy Gray. Felix Ravinstill, the president’s grandnephew, was 
trying to make an impression with the District 11 girl, Dill, but 
Coriolanus couldn’t figure out his angle, because she’d become so 
sickly even her coughs were barely audible. 

Tigris had worked another one of her miracles on Lucy Gray’s 
dress. The filth and soot had vanished, leaving fresh, starchy rows of 
rainbow ruffles. She’d also sent a pot of blush Fabricia had discarded 
with just a smidgeon left in the bottom. Scrubbed clean, with rouged 


cheeks and lips, her hair piled up on her head as it had been for the 


reaping, Lucy Gray looked, as Pluribus had said, like someone who 
still knew how to have fun. 

“I think your odds get better by the minute,” said Coriolanus, 
adjusting a hot pink rosebud in her hair. It matched the one on his 
lapel, just in case anyone needed a reminder of who Lucy Gray 
belonged to. 

“Well, you know what they say. The show’s not over until the 
mockingjay sings,” she said. 

“The mockingjay?” He laughed. “Really, I think you’re just making 
these things up.” 

“Not that one. A mockingjay’s a bona fide bird,” she assured him. 

“And it sings in your show?” he asked. 

“Not my show, sweetheart. Yours. The Capitol’s anyway,” said 
Lucy Gray. “I think we’re up.” 

With her clean dress and his neatly pressed uniform, their very 
appearance brought a spontaneous round of applause from the 
audience. He didn’t waste time asking her a lot of questions no one 
cared about. Instead he introduced himself and stepped back, leaving 
her alone in the spotlight. 

“Good evening,” she said. “I’m Lucy Gray Baird, of the Covey 
Bairds. I started writing this song back in District Twelve, before I 
knew what the ending would be. It’s my words set to an old tune. 
Where I’m from, we call it a ballad. That’s a song that tells a story. 
And I guess this is mine. ‘The Ballad of Lucy Gray Baird.’ I hope you 


like it.” 


Coriolanus had heard her sing dozens of songs over the past few 
days, full of everything from the beauty of springtime to the heart- 
wrenching despair of losing her mama. Lullabies and toe tappers, 
laments and ditties. She’d solicited his opinion, weighing his 
responses to each song. He’d thought they’d settled on a charming 
thing about the wonder of falling in love, but a few bars into this 
ballad, he knew this was nothing she’d rehearsed. The haunting 
melody set the tone, and her words did the rest as she began to sing in 


a voice husky from smoke and sadness. 


When I was a babe I fell down in the holler. 
When I was a girl I fell into your arms. 
We fell on hard times and we lost our bright color. 


You went to the dogs and I lived by my charms. 


I danced for my dinner, spread kisses like honey. 
You stole and you gambled and I said you should. 
We sang for our suppers, we drank up our money. 


Then one day you left, saying I was no good. 


Well, all right, I’m bad, but then, you’re no prize either. 
All right, I’m bad, but then, that’s nothing new. 
You say you won't love me, I won’t love you neither. 


Just let me remind you who I am to you. 


Cause I am the one who looks out when you’re leaping. 


I am the one who knows how you were brave. 


And I am the one who heard what you said sleeping. 


I'll take that and more when I go to my grave. 


It’s sooner than later that I’m six feet under. 
It’s sooner than later that you'll be alone. 
So who will you turn to tomorrow, I wonder? 


For when the bell rings, lover, you’re on your own. 


And I am the one who you let see you weeping. 
I know the soul that you struggle to save. 
Too bad I’m the bet that you lost in the reaping. 


Now what will you do when I go to my grave? 


You could hear a pin drop in the auditorium when she finished. 
Then there were a few sniffles, some coughing, and finally Pluribus’s 
voice shouting out “Bravo” from the back of the auditorium and the 
thunderous applause that followed. 

Coriolanus knew it had hit home, this dark, moving, far too 
personal account of her life. He knew the gifts would pour into the 
arena for her. That her success, even now, reflected back on him, 
making it his success. Snow lands on top and all that. He knew he 
should be elated at this turn of events and jumping up and down 
inside while presenting a modest, pleased front. 


But what he really felt was jealous. 


> 


“And last but least, District Twelve girl... she belongs to Coriolanus 
Snow.” 

“Things might’ve been quite different if you hadn’t landed your little 
rainbow girl.” 

“The truth is, we were all so busy killing each other that we forgot how 
to have fun. She knows, though. Your girl.” 

His girl. His. Here in the Capitol, it was a given that Lucy Gray 
belonged to him, as if she’d had no life before her name was called 
out at the reaping. Even that sanctimonious Sejanus believed she was 
something he could trade for. If that wasn’t ownership, what was? 
With her song, Lucy Gray had repudiated all that by featuring a life 
that had nothing to do with him, and a great deal to do with someone 
else. Someone she referred to as “lover,” no less. And while he had no 
claim on her heart — he barely knew the girl! — he didn’t like the 
idea of anyone else having it either. Although the song had been a 
clear success, he felt somehow betrayed by it. Even humiliated. 


Lucy Gray rose and took a bow, then extended her hand to him. 


After a moment’s hesitation, he joined her at the front of the stage 
while the applause built to a standing ovation. Pluribus led the cries 
for an encore, but their time had expired, as Lucky Flickerman 
reminded them, so they took a final bow and exited the stage, hand in 
hand. 

As they reached the wings she started to release him, but he 
tightened his grip. “Well, you’re a hit. Congratulations. New song?” 

“Tve been working on it awhile, but I only found that last stanza a 
few hours ago,” she said. “Why? Didn’t you like it?” 

“It surprised me. You had so many others,” he said. 

“I did.” Lucy Gray freed her hand and ran her fingers across the 
guitar strings, picking out one last bit of melody before she gently 
settled the instrument back in its case. “Here’s the thing, Coriolanus. 
I’m going to fight like all-fire to win these Games, but I’m going to be 
in there with the likes of Reaper and Tanner and a few others who are 
no strangers to killing. There’s no guarantee of anything.” 

“And the song?” he prodded. 

“The song?” she repeated, and took a moment to consider her 
answer. “I left some loose ends back in District Twelve. Me being 
tribute ... Well, there’s bad luck and then there’s bad business. That 
was bad business. And someone who owed me plenty had a hand in it. 
The song, it was payback of a kind. Most people won’t know that, but 
the Covey will get the message, loud and clear. And they’re all I really 
care about.” 


“Just on one hearing?” asked Coriolanus. “It went by pretty fast.” 


“One hearing’s all my cousin Maude Ivory needs. That child never 
forgets anything with a tune,” said Lucy Gray. “Looks like I’m being 
rounded up again.” 

The two male Peacekeepers who appeared at her side treated her 
with a certain friendliness now, asking if she was ready to go and 
trying to keep their smiles contained. Just like those Peacekeepers 
back in 12. Coriolanus couldn’t help wondering just how friendly she 
could be. He gave them a disapproving look that had zero effect and 
heard them complimenting her performance as they took her away. 

He swallowed his peevishness and accepted the congratulations 
that were pouring in from all sides. They helped to remind him that 
he was the real star of the evening. Even if Lucy Gray was confused on 
the issue, in the eyes of the Capitol, she belonged to him. What point 
would there be in crediting a district tribute? This held true until he 
ran into Pluribus, who gushed, “What a talent, what a natural she is! 
If she manages to survive, I’m determined to headline her in my club.” 

“That sounds a bit tricky. Won’t they send her home?” said 
Coriolanus. 

“I have one or two favors I could call in,” he said. “Oh, Coriolanus, 
wasn’t she stellar? I’m so glad you got her, my boy. The Snows were 
due a piece of good luck.” 

Silly old man with his ridiculous powdered wig and his decrepit 
cat. What did he know about anything? Coriolanus was about to set 
the record straight, when Satyria appeared and whispered in his ear, 


“T think that prize is in the bag,” and he let it go. 


Sejanus appeared, in another brand-new suit, with a rumpled little 
woman in an expensive flowered dress on his arm. It didn’t matter. 
You could put a turnip in a ball gown and it would still beg to be 
mashed. Coriolanus had no doubt this could only be Ma. 

As Sejanus introduced them, he extended his hand and gave her a 
warm smile. “Mrs. Plinth, what an honor. Please forgive me for my 
negligence. I’ve been meaning to write you a note for days, but every 
time I sit down to do it, my head throbs so from my concussion that I 
can’t think straight. Thank you for the delicious casserole.” 

Mrs. Plinth crinkled with pleasure and gave an embarrassed laugh. 
“It’s for us to thank you, Coriolanus. We’re so glad that Sejanus has 
such a good friend. If there’s ever anything you need, I hope you'll 
know you can count on us.” 

“Well, that cuts both ways, madam. I am at your service,” he said, 
laying it on so thick she was sure to be suspicious. But not Ma. Her 
eyes filled with tears and she made a gurgling sound, having been 
rendered speechless by his magnanimousness. She dug in her 
handbag, a ghastly thing the size of a small suitcase, pulled out a lace- 
trimmed handkerchief, and began blowing her nose. Fortunately, 
Tigris, who was genuinely sweet to everyone, came backstage to find 
him and took over chatting with the Plinths. 

Things finally wound down, and as the cousins walked home 
together, they analyzed the evening, from Lucy Gray’s restrained use 
of the blush to the unfortunate fit of Ma’s dress. “But really, Coryo, I 


can’t imagine things going any better for you,” said Tigris. 


“Tm certainly pleased,” he said. “I think we’ll be able to get her 
some sponsors. I just hope some people aren’t put off by the song.” 

“T was very moved by it. I think most people were. Didn’t you like 
it?” she asked. 

“Of course I liked it, but I’m more open-minded than most,” he 
said. “I mean, what do you think she was suggesting happened?” 

“Tt sounded to me like she had a bad time of it. Someone she loved 
broke her heart,” Tigris answered. 

“That was only the half of it,” he continued, because he couldn’t 
let even Tigris think he’d felt envious of some no-account in the 
districts. “There was the part about her living by her charms.” 

“Well, that could be anything. She’s a performer, after all,” she 
said. 

He considered it. “I suppose.” 

“You said she lost her parents. She’s probably been fending for 
herself for years. I don’t think anyone who survived the war and the 
years after can blame her for that.” Tigris dropped her gaze. “We all 
did things we’re not proud of.” 

“You didn’t,” he said. 

“Didn’t I?” Tigris spoke with an uncharacteristic bitterness. “We 
all did. Maybe you were too little to remember. Maybe you didn’t 
know how bad it really was.” 

“How can you say that? That’s all I remember,” he shot back. 

“Then be kind, Coryo,” she snapped. “And try not to look down on 


people who had to choose between death and disgrace.” 


Tigris’s rebuke shocked him, but less than her alluding to behavior 
that might be considered a disgrace. What had she done? Because if 
she’d done it, she’d done it to protect him. He thought about the 
morning of the reaping, when he’d casually wondered what she had to 
trade in the black market, but he’d never really taken that seriously. 
Or hadn’t he? Would he have just preferred not to know what 
sacrifices she might be willing to make for him? Her comment was 
vague enough, and so many things were beneath a Snow, that he 
could say, as she had of Lucy Gray’s song, “Well, that could be 
anything.” Did he want to know the details? No. The truth was he did 
not. 

As he pulled open the glass door to the apartment building, she 
gave a cry of disbelief. “Oh, no, it can’t be! The elevator’s working!” 

He felt doubtful, as the thing hadn’t worked since early in the war. 
But the door stood open and the lights reflected off the mirrored walls 
of the car. Glad for the distraction, he made a low bow, inviting her to 
enter. “After you.” 

Tigris giggled and paraded into the car like the grand lady she was 
born to be. “You’re too kind.” 

Coriolanus swept in after her, and for a moment they both stared 
at the buttons designating the floors. “The last time I remember this 
working, we’d just been to my father’s funeral. We got home, and 
we've been climbing ever since.” 

“The Grandma’am will be thrilled,” said Tigris. “Her knees can’t 


take those stairs anymore.” 


“I’m thrilled. Maybe she’ll get out of the apartment once in a 
while,” Coriolanus said. Tigris smacked him on the arm, but she was 
laughing. “Really. It would be nice to have the place to ourselves for 
five minutes. Maybe skip the anthem one morning, or not wear a tie 
to dinner. Then again, there’s the danger of her talking to people. 
‘When Coriolanus is president, it will rain champagne every 
Tuesday!” 

“Perhaps people will just put it down to age,” said Tigris. 

“One can hope. Will you do the honors?” he asked. 

Tigris reached out and gave the penthouse button a nice long 
push. After a pause the doors slid shut with nary a squeak, and they 
began to ascend. “I’m surprised the apartment board decided to fix it 
now. It must’ve been costly.” 

Coriolanus frowned. “You don’t suppose they’re spiffing up the 
building hoping to sell their places? You know, with the new taxes.” 

The playfulness drained out of Tigris. “That’s very possible. I know 
the Dolittles would consider selling for the right price. They say the 
apartment is too big for them, but you know it’s not that.” 

“Is that what we’ll say? That our ancestral home has gotten too 
large?” Coriolanus said as the doors opened to reveal their front door. 
“Come on, I’ve still got homework.” 

The Grandma’am had waited up to sing his praises and said they’d 
been replaying highlights from the interviews nonstop. “She’s a sad, 
trashy little thing, your girl, but oddly appealing in her way. Perhaps 


it’s her voice. It gets inside a person somehow.” 


If Lucy Gray had won over the Grandma’am, Coriolanus felt the 
rest of the nation could only fall in step. If no one else seemed to be 
bothered by her questionable past, why should he be? 

He got a glass of buttermilk, changed into his father’s silk robe, 
and settled down to write about everything he loved about the war. 
He began with As they say, war is misery, but it’s not without its charms. 
It seemed a clever intro to him, but it led nowhere, and half an hour 
later hed made no headway. It was, as Festus had suggested, destined 
to be a very short assignment. But he knew that would not satisfy Dr. 
Gaul, and a halfhearted effort would only bring him unwanted 
attention. 

When Tigris came in to say good night, he bounced the topic off 
her. “Can you remember anything at all we liked?” 

She sat on the end of his bed and thought it over. “I liked some of 
the uniforms. Not the ones they wear now. Do you remember the red 
jackets with the gold piping?” 

“In the parades?” He felt a bit of a rush as he remembered hanging 
from the window with the soldiers and bands marching by. “Did I like 
the parades?” 

“You loved them. You’d be so excited that we couldn’t get you to 
eat your breakfast,” said Tigris. “We always had a gathering on 
parade days.” 

“Front-row seats.” Coriolanus jotted the words uniforms and 
parades on a scrap of paper, then added fireworks. “Any sort of 


spectacle appealed to me when I was little, I suppose.” 


“Remember the turkey?” Tigris said suddenly. 

It had been the last year of the war, when the siege had reduced 
the Capitol to cannibalism and despair. Even the lima beans were 
running low, and it had been months since anything resembling meat 
had made its way to their table. In an attempt to raise morale, the 
Capitol had proclaimed December 15th National Heroes Day. They 
put together a television special and honored a dozen or so citizens 
who’d lost their lives in defense of the Capitol, with Coriolanus’s 
father, General Crassus Snow, among them. The electricity came on in 
time for the broadcast, but it had been off — and with it the heat — 
for a solid day before. They’d been huddled together on the 
Grandma’am’s boat of a bed, and so they remained to watch their 
heroes honored. Even then, Coriolanus’s memory of his father had 
faded, and while he knew his face from photos, he was startled by the 
man’s deep voice and uncompromising words against the districts. 
After the anthem played, a knock on the front door roused them from 
the bed, and they found a trio of young soldiers in dress uniforms 
delivering a commemorative plaque and a basket with a twenty- 
pound frozen turkey, compliments of the state. In an apparent attempt 
at the Capitol’s former luxury, the basket also included a dusty jar of 
mint jelly, a can of salmon, three cracked sticks of pineapple candy, a 
loofah sponge, and a flowery-scented candle. The soldiers set the 
basket on a table in the foyer, read a statement of thanks, and bid 
them good night. Tigris burst into tears, and the Grandma’am had to 


sit down, but the first thing Coriolanus did was run and make sure the 


door was locked to protect their newfound riches. 

They’d eaten salmon on toast and it was decided Tigris would stay 
home from school the next day to figure out how to cook the bird. 
Coriolanus delivered a dinner invitation on the Snows’ engraved 
stationery to Pluribus, and he came bearing posca and a dented can of 
apricots. With the help of one of Cook’s old recipe books, Tigris had 
outdone herself, and they’d feasted on jelly-glazed turkey with bread 
and cabbage stuffing. Nothing had ever, before or since, tasted so 
good. 

“Still one of the best days of my life.” He wasn’t sure how to 
phrase it but finally added relief from deprivation to the list. “You were 
a wonder, the way you cooked that turkey. At the time you seemed so 
old to me, but you were really just a little girl,” said Coriolanus. 

Tigris smiled. “And you. With your victory garden on the roof.” 

“If you liked parsley, I was your man!” He laughed. But he’d taken 
pride in his parsley. It had livened up the soup, and sometimes he 
could trade it for other things. Resourcefulness, he put on the list. 

So he wrote his assignment, recounting these childish delights, but 
in the end he did not feel satisfied. He thought about the last couple 
of weeks, with the bombing in the arena, losing his classmates, 
Marcus’s escape, and how it all had revived the terror he’d felt when 
the Capitol had been under siege. What had mattered then, what 
mattered still, was living without that fear. So he added a paragraph 
about his deep relief on winning the war, and the grim satisfaction of 


seeing the Capitol’s enemies, who’d treated him so cruelly, who’d cost 


his family so much, brought to their knees. Hobbled. Impotent. 
Unable to hurt him anymore. He’d loved the unfamiliar sense of safety 
that their defeat had brought. The security that could only come with 
power. The ability to control things. Yes, that was what he’d loved 
best of all. 

The next morning, as the remaining mentors straggled in for the 
Sunday meeting, Coriolanus tried to imagine who they would’ve been 
had no war occurred. Barely more than toddlers when it started, 
they’d all been about eight when it ended. Although the hardships had 
eased, he and his classmates were still far removed from the opulent 
life they’d been born into, and the rebuilding of their world had been 
slow and disheartening. If he could erase the rationing and the 
bombings, the hunger and the fear, and replace it with the rosy lives 
promised to them at birth, would he even recognize his friends? 

Coriolanus felt a twinge of guilt when his thoughts landed on 
Clemensia. He hadn’t been to see her yet, between recovering and 
homework and readying Lucy Gray for the Games. It wasn’t just a 
time issue, though. He had no desire to return to the hospital and see 
what state she was in. What if the doctor had been lying, and the 
scales were spreading to cover her entire body? What if she’d 
transformed into a snake entirely? That was silliness, but Dr. Gaul’s 
lab had been so sinister that his mind went to extremes. A paranoid 
thought nibbled at him. What if Dr. Gaul’s people were only waiting 
for him to visit so they could imprison him as well? It didn’t make 


sense. If they’d wanted to hold him, his hospitalization would’ve been 


the time. The whole thing was ridiculous, he concluded. He’d go to 
see her at the first opportunity. 

Dr. Gaul, clearly a morning person, and Dean Highbottom, clearly 
not, reviewed the previous night’s performances. Coriolanus and Lucy 
Gray had obliterated the field, although points were given to those 
who’d at least managed to get their tributes to the interview stage. On 
Capitol TV, Lucky Flickerman was providing updates on the betting 
scene from the main post office, and while people were favoring 
Tanner and Jessup to win, Lucy Gray had racked up three times as 
many gifts as her nearest competitor. 

“Look at all these people,” said Dr. Gaul. “Sending bread to a slip 
of a girl with a broken heart, even though they don’t believe she can 
win. What’s the lesson there?” 

“At the dogfights, I’ve seen people back mutts that can barely 
stand,” Festus told her. “People love a long shot.” 

“People love a good love song, more like,” said Persephone, 
showing her dimples. 

“People are fools,” sneered Livia. “She doesn’t stand a chance.” 

“But there are a lot of romantics.” Pup batted his eyes at her and 
made sloppy kissing sounds. 

“Yes, romantic notions, idealistic notions, can be very attractive. 
Which seems like a good segue into your essays.” Dr. Gaul settled 
herself on a lab stool. “Let’s see what you’ve got.” 

Rather than collect their essays, Dr. Gaul had them read bits and 


pieces of them aloud. Coriolanus’s classmates had touched on many 


points that hadn’t crossed his mind. Some had been drawn to the 
courage of the soldiers, the chance to maybe one day be heroic 
themselves. Others mentioned the bond that formed between soldiers 
who fought together, or the nobility of defending the Capitol. 

“It felt like we were all part of something bigger,” said Domitia. 
She nodded solemnly, causing the ponytail on the top of her head to 
bob. “Something important. We all made sacrifices, but it was to save 
our country.” 

Coriolanus felt disconnected from their “romantic notions,” as he 
didn’t share a romanticized view of the war. Courage in battle was 
often necessary because of someone else’s poor planning. He had no 
idea if he would take a bullet for Festus and had no interest in finding 
out. As to the noble ideas of the Capitol, did they really believe that? 
What he desired had little to do with nobility and everything to do 
with being in control. Not that he didn’t have a strong moral code; 
certainly he did. But almost everything in war, between its declaration 
and the victory parades, seemed a waste of resources. He kept one eye 
on the clock while pretending to be engaged in the conversation, 
willing time to pass so he wouldn’t have to read anything. The 
parades seemed shallow, the appeal of power still true but heartless 
compared to the ramblings of his classmates. And he wished he hadn’t 
even written the bit about growing the parsley; it just sounded puerile 
now. 

The best he could do, when his time came, was to read the story 


about the turkey. Domitia told him it was touching, Livia rolled her 


eyes, and Dr. Gaul raised her eyebrows and asked did he have more to 
share? He did not. 

“Mr. Plinth?” said Dr. Gaul. 

Sejanus had been silent and subdued through the entire class. He 
flipped a sheet of paper over and read, “The only thing I loved about 
the war was the fact that I still lived at home.’ If you’re asking me if it 
had any value beyond that, I would say that it was an opportunity to 
right some wrongs.” 

“And did it?” asked Dr. Gaul. 

“Not at all. Things in the districts are worse than ever,” said 
Sejanus. 

Objections came from around the room. 

“Whoa!” 

“He did not just say that.” 

“Go back to Two, then! Who’d miss you?” 

He’s really pushing it now, thought Coriolanus. But he was angry, 
too. It took two parties to make a war. A war that, by the way, the 
rebels had started. A war that had left him an orphan. 

But Sejanus ignored his classmates, staying focused on the Head 
Gamemaker. “May I ask, what did you love about the war, Dr. Gaul?” 

She looked at him for a long moment, then smiled. “I loved how it 
proved me right.” 

Dean Highbottom announced the lunch break before anyone 
ventured to ask how, and they all filed out, leaving their essays 


behind. 


They were given a half hour to eat, but Coriolanus had forgotten 
to bring any food, and none was provided because it was Sunday. He 
spent the time stretched out in a shaded area of the front steps, resting 
his head while Festus and Hilarius Heavensbee, who was mentoring 
the District 8 girl, discussed strategies for female tributes. He vaguely 
remembered Hilarius’s tribute from the train station, wearing a 
striped dress and red scarf, but mostly because she’d been with 
Bobbin. 

“The trouble with girls is, they’re not used to fighting the same 
way boys are,” said Hilarius. The Heavensbees were ultrarich, the way 
the Snows had been before the war. But no matter his advantages, 
Hilarius always seemed to feel oppressed. 

“Oh, I don’t know,” said Festus. “I think my Coral could give any 
of those guys a run for their money.” 

“Mine’s a runt.” Hilarius picked at his steak sandwich with his 
manicured nails. “Wovey, she calls herself. Well, I tried to train old 
Wovey for the interview, but zero personality. No one’s backed her, so 
I can’t feed her, even if she can avoid the others.” 

“If she stays alive, she’ll get backers,” said Festus. 

“Are you even listening to me? She can’t fight, and ’'ve no money 
to work with since my family can’t bet,” Hilarius whined. “I’m just 
hoping she lasts until the final twelve so I can face my parents. 
They’re embarrassed that a Heavensbee’s making such a poor 
showing.” 


After lunch, Satyria took the mentors over to the Capitol News 


station so they could become acquainted with the behind-the-scenes 
machinery of the Hunger Games. The Gamemakers worked out of a 
handful of shabby offices, and while the control room assigned to 
them was sufficient, it seemed a little small for the annual event. 
Coriolanus found the whole thing a bit disappointing — he’d 
imagined something flashier — but the Gamemakers were excited 
about the new elements of this year’s Games and chattered on about 
mentor commentary and sponsor participation. The booth was abuzz 
as they checked the remote-operated cameras that had been fixtures 
back in the sports arena days. Half a dozen Gamemakers were busy 
testing the toy drones designated to deliver the sponsors’ gifts. The 
drones found their recipients by facial recognition and could carry just 
one item at a time. 

Lucky Flickerman, fresh off his interview success, had been tapped 
to host, backed up by a handful of Capitol News reporters. Coriolanus 
got a thrill when he saw himself slotted in at 8:15 the following 
morning, until Lucky said, “We wanted to make sure to get you in 
early. You know, before your girl buys it.” 

He felt as though someone had punched him in the gut. Livia was 
bitter and Dr. Gaul insane, so he’d been able to ignore their certainty 
that Lucy Gray wasn’t a contender. But somehow goofy Lucky 
Flickerman’s words hit home in a way theirs could not. As he walked 
back to the apartment to prepare for his final meeting with Lucy Gray, 
he ruminated over the likelihood that she’d be dead by the same time 


tomorrow. The previous night’s jealousy over her loser of a boyfriend 


and the way her star quality sometimes outshone his own evaporated. 
He felt remarkably close to her, this girl who’d dropped into his life so 
unexpectedly and with such style. And it wasn’t just about the 
accolades she’d brought him. He was genuinely fond of her, far more 
than he was of most of the girls he knew in the Capitol. If she could 
survive — oh, sweet only if— how could they help but have a 
lifelong connection? But for all his positive talk, he knew the odds 
were not in her favor, and a heavy melancholy descended upon him. 

At home, he lay on his bed, dreading having to say good-bye. He 
wished he could give Lucy Gray something beautiful that would really 
show his thanks for what she’d given him. A renewed sense of his 
worth. An opportunity to shine. A prize in the bag. And, of course, his 
life. It would have to be something very special. Precious. Something 
of his own, not like the roses, which were really the Grandma’am’s. 
Something that, if things went badly in the arena, she could wrap her 
fingers around as a reminder that he was with her, and find comfort 
in the fact that she was not dying alone. There was a silk scarf dyed a 
luscious deep orange that she could probably use in her hair. A gold 
pin he’d won for academic excellence, engraved with his name. 
Maybe a lock of his hair tied in a ribbon? What could be more 
personal than that? 

Suddenly, he felt a surge of anger. What good were any of these 
unless she could use them to defend herself? What was he doing but 
dressing her up to be a pretty corpse? Perhaps she could strangle 


someone with the scarf, or stab them with the pin? But there was no 


shortage of weaponry in the arena, if that were the issue. 

He was still trying to figure out a gift when Tigris called him to 
the table. She had bought a pound of chopped beef and fried up four 
patties. Hers was considerably smaller, which he would’ve objected to 
if he didn’t know she always nibbled on the uncooked meat while she 
prepared the meal. Tigris craved it and would have eaten her whole 
portion raw if the Grandma’am hadn’t forbidden it. One of the patties 
was reserved for Lucy Gray, layered with toppings and nestled in a 
large bun. Tigris also made fried potatoes and creamed cabbage slaw, 
and Coriolanus selected the finest fruits and sweets from the gift 
basket from the hospital. Tigris laid a linen napkin in a small 
cardboard box decorated with brightly plumed birds and arranged the 
feast, topping the snowy white fabric with one final rosebud from the 
Grandma’am. Coriolanus had chosen a rich shade of peach tinged 
with crimson, because the Covey loved color, and Lucy Gray more 
than most. 

“Tell her,” said Tigris, “that I am rooting for her.” 

“Tell her,” the Grandma’am added, “that we are all so sorry she 
has to die.” 

After the soft, sun-warmed evening air, the chill of Heavensbee 
Hall reminded Coriolanus of the Snow family mausoleum, where his 
parents had been laid to rest. Empty of students and their bustle, 
everything from footsteps to sighs echoed loudly, giving an 
otherworldly feeling to an already gloomy meeting. No lights had 


been turned on, the late rays that slipped through the windows being 


thought sufficient, but that contrasted sharply with the brightness of 
their earlier meetings. As the remaining mentors gathered on the 
balcony and surveyed their counterparts down below, a hush fell over 
them. 

“The thing is,” Lysistrata whispered to Coriolanus, “I’ve become 
rather attached to Jessup.” She paused a moment, arranging the 
wrapping on a chunk of baked noodles and cheese. “He did save my 
life.” Coriolanus wondered what Lysistrata, who had been closer to 
him than anyone else in the arena, had seen when the bombs went 
off. Had she seen Lucy Gray save him? Was she hinting at that? 

As they wove their way to their respective tables, Coriolanus 
forced himself to think positively. There was no profit in spending 
their last ten minutes together weeping when they could devote it to a 
winning strategy. It helped quite a bit that Lucy Gray looked better 
than in previous meetings in the hall. Clean and groomed, her dress 
still fresh in the shadowy light, you’d think she’d readied herself for a 
party and not a slaughter. Her eyes lit on the box. 

Coriolanus presented it with a small bow. “I come bearing gifts.” 

Lucy Gray lifted the rose daintily and inhaled its fragrance. She 
plucked a petal and slipped it between her lips. “It tastes like 
bedtime,” she said with a sad smile. “What a pretty box.” 

“Tigris was saving it for something special,” he said. “Go ahead 
and eat if you’re hungry. It’s still warm.” 

“T think I will. Eat one last meal like a civilized person.” She 


pulled open the napkin and admired the contents of the box. “Oh, this 


looks prime.” 

“There’s a lot, so you can share it with Jessup,” Coriolanus told 
her. “Although I think Lysistrata brought him something.” 

“T would, but he stopped eating.” Lucy Gray shot Jessup a worried 
look. “Might just be nerves. He’s acting kind of funny, too. Of course, 
all kinds of crazy’s coming out of our mouths now.” 

“Like what?” asked Coriolanus. 

“Like last night Reaper apologized to each of us personally for 
having to kill us,” she explained. “He says he’ll make it up to us when 
he wins. He’s going to take revenge on the Capitol, although that part 
wasn’t as clear as the killing us part.” 

Coriolanus’s glance flitted over to Reaper, who was not only 
powerful but apparently good at mind games. “What was the response 
to that?” 

“Most people just stared at him. Jessup spit in his eye. I told him it 
wasn’t over until the mockingjay sang, but that only confused him. It’s 
his way of making sense of all this, I guess. We’re all reeling. It’s not 
easy .. . saying good-bye to your life.” Her lower lip began to tremble, 
and she pushed her sandwich aside without taking so much as a bite. 

Feeling the conversation taking a fatalistic turn, Coriolanus steered 
it in another direction. “Lucky you don’t have to. Lucky you have 
triple the gifts of anybody else.” 

Lucy Gray’s eyebrows shot up. “Triple?” 

“Triple. You’re going to win this thing, Lucy Gray,” he said. “I’ve 


thought it through. The moment they hit that gong, you run. Run as 


fast as you can. Get up in those stands and put as much distance as 
you can between you and the others. Find a good hiding space. I’ll get 
you food. Then you move to another space. Just keep moving and stay 
alive until the others all kill each other or starve to death. You can do 
it.” 

“Can I? I know I’m the one who pushed you to believe in me, but 
last night I got to thinking about being in that arena. Trapped. All 
those weapons. Reaper coming after me. I feel more hopeful in the 
daytime, but when it gets dark, I get so afraid I —” Suddenly, tears 
began streaming down her face. It was the first time she hadn’t been 
able to contain them. On the stage after the mayor had hit her, or the 
time Coriolanus had given her bread pudding, she’d been on the verge 
of crying but managed to keep her tears in check. Now, as if a dam 
had broken, they flooded out. 

Coriolanus felt something inside him unravel as he saw her 
helplessness and felt his own. He reached for her. “Oh, Lucy Gray . . .” 

“T don’t want to die,” she whispered. 

His fingers brushed the tears from her cheeks. “Of course you 
don’t. And I won’t let you.” She sobbed on. “I won’t let you, Lucy 
Gray!” 

“You should let me. I’ve never been anything but trouble to you,” 
she choked out. “Putting you in danger and eating your food. And I 
could tell you hated my ballad. You’ll be well rid of me tomorrow.” 

“TIl be a wreck tomorrow! When I told you that you mattered to 


me, I didn’t mean as my tribute. I meant as you. You, Lucy Gray 


Baird, as a person. As my friend. As my —” What was the word for it? 
Sweetheart? Girlfriend? He could not claim more than a crush, and 
that might be one-sided. But what could he possibly have to lose by 
admitting she’d gotten to him? “I felt jealous after your ballad, 
because I wanted you to be thinking about me, not someone from 
your past. It’s stupid, I know. But you’re the most incredible girl I’ve 
ever met. Really. Extraordinary in every way. And 1...” Tears welled 
in his own eyes, but he blinked them away. He had to stay strong for 
them both. “And I don’t want to lose you. I refuse to lose you. Please, 
don’t cry.” 

“Tm sorry. I’m sorry. I’ll stop. It’s just . . . I feel so alone,” she said. 

“You're not alone.” He took her hand. “And you won’t be alone in 
the arena; we’ll be together. IIl be there every moment. I won’t take 
my eyes off of you. We’ll win this thing together, Lucy Gray. I 
promise.” 

She clung to him. “Sounds almost possible, the way you say it.” 

“Its more than possible,” he asserted. “It’s probable. It’s 
inevitable, if you just follow the plan.” 

“You really believe that?” she said, watching his face. “Because if I 
thought you did, it could go a long way to making me believe it, too.” 

The moment required a grand gesture. Fortunately, he had one. He 
had been on the fence, weighing the risk, but he couldn’t leave her 
like this, with nothing to hold on to. It was a matter of honor. She was 
his girl, she had saved his life, and he had to do everything he could 


to save hers. 


“Listen. Are you listening?” She was still crying, but her sobs had 
quieted to small, intermittent gasps. “My mother left me something 
when she died. It’s my most precious possession. I want you to have it 
in the arena, for good luck. It’s a loan, mind you. I fully expect you to 
return it to me. Otherwise, I could never part with it.” Coriolanus 
reached into his pocket, extended his hand, and fanned out his 
fingers. On his palm, gleaming in the last rays of the sun, sat his 
mother’s silver compact. 

Lucy Gray’s mouth dropped open at the sight of it, and she wasn’t 
easy to impress. She reached out and caressed the exquisitely 
engraved rose, the antique silver, before drawing back regretfully. 
“Oh, I couldn’t take it. It’s too fine. It’s enough you offered it, 
Coriolanus.” 

“Are you sure?” he asked, teasing her a bit. He smoothly clicked 
the latch and held it up so she could see her reflection in the mirror. 

Lucy Gray drew in a quick breath and laughed. “Well, now you’re 
playing on my weakness.” And it was true. She was always so careful 
with her appearance. Not vain, really. Just conscious. She noticed the 
empty well where the cake of powder had sat an hour earlier. “Did 
there used to be powder here?” 

“There did, but —” began Coriolanus. He paused. If he said it, 
there was no going back. On the other hand, if he didn’t, he might be 
losing her for good. His voice dropped to a whisper. “I thought you 


might want to use your own.” 


> 


Lucy Gray understood instantly. Her eyes darted to the 
Peacekeepers, none of whom were paying attention, and she leaned in 
and took a sniff of the compact. “Mm, you can still smell it, though. 
Lovely.” 

“Like roses,” he said. 

“Like you,” she said. “It really would be like having you with me, 
wouldn’t it?” 

“Go on,” he urged her. “Take me with you. Take it.” 

Lucy Gray wiped away her tears with the back of her hand. “Okay, 
but it’s a loaner.” She took the compact, slipped it into her pocket, 
and gave it a pat. “It helps to clarify my thinking. Somehow, winning 
the Games is just too large a thing to conceive of. But if I say, ‘I need 
to get this back to Coriolanus,’ I can wrap my mind around that.” 

They talked a bit more, mostly about the layout of the arena and 
where the best hiding places might be, and he got half of the 
sandwich and all of a peach into her by the time Professor Sickle blew 


her whistle. Coriolanus wasn’t sure how it happened, but they must 


have both risen, both moved forward, because he found her in his 
arms, her hands clutching his shirtfront, as he locked her in an 
embrace. 

“You're all I’m going to think about in that arena,” she whispered. 

“Not that guy back in Twelve?” he said only half-jokingly. 

“No, he made sure he killed anything I felt for him,” she said. “The 
only boy my heart has a sweet spot for now is you.” 

Then she gave him a kiss. Not a peck. A real kiss on the lips, with 
hints of peaches and powder. The feel of her mouth, soft and warm 
against his own, sent sensations surging through his body. Rather than 
pulling back, he held her even tighter as the taste and touch of her 
made his head spin. So this was what people were talking about! This 
was what made them so crazy! When they finally broke apart, he 
drew a deep breath, as if surfacing from the depths. Lucy Gray’s lashes 
fluttered open, and the look in her eyes matched his own. They 
simultaneously leaned in for another kiss when the Peacekeepers laid 
hands on her and led her away. 

Festus nudged him on the way out of the hall. “That was some 
good-bye.” 

Coriolanus just shrugged. “What can I say? I’m irresistible.” 

“T guess,” Festus answered. “I tried to give Coral a reassuring pat 
on the shoulder and she about broke my wrist.” 

The kiss left him giddy. Beyond a doubt he’d crossed a line, but he 
didn’t regret it.... It had been amazing. He walked home alone, 


savoring the bittersweet parting, electrified by his daring. Maybe he’d 


broken a rule or two by giving her the compact and suggesting she fill 
it with rat poison, who knew? There was no real rule book for the 
Hunger Games. Okay, he probably had. But even so, it was worth it. 
For her. Still, he wasn’t telling anyone, not even Tigris. 

It wasn’t a game changer necessarily. It would take cleverness and 
luck to poison another tribute. But Lucy Gray was clever, and no more 
unlucky than the others. They would have to ingest the poison, so his 
job would be to get her the food to use as bait. He felt more in 
control, having something to do besides watch. 

After the Grandma’am had gone to bed, he confided in Tigris. “I 
think she’s fallen in love with me.” 

“Of course she has. What do you feel for her?” she asked. 

“T don’t know,” he answered. “I kissed her good-bye.” 

Tigris raised her eyebrows. “On the cheek?” 

“No. On the lips.” He thought about how to explain it, but all he 
could muster was “She’s something else.” Which was undeniable, on 
so many levels. The truth was, he didn’t have much experience when 
it came to girls, and even less when it came to love. Keeping the 
Snows’ situation a secret had always been the top priority. The 
cousins rarely had anyone to the apartment, even when Tigris had 
fallen hard in her final year of the Academy. Her reluctance to bring 
her sweetheart home had been taken as lack of commitment and had 
been a deciding factor in the breakup. Coriolanus took the incident as 
a warning not to become too deeply entangled with anyone himself. 


Plenty of his classmates had been interested in him, but he’d skillfully 


kept them at arm’s length. The excuse of that broken elevator had 
come in handy, and the Grandma’am had had several fictional 
ailments that required absolute quiet. There had been that one thing, 
last year, in the alley behind the train station, but that wasn’t really a 
romance so much as a dare Festus had put him up to. Between the 
posca and the darkness, the memory was sketchy at best. On 
reflection, he had never even learned her name, but it had earned him 
the reputation of being rather a player. 

But Lucy Gray was his tribute, headed into the arena. And even if 
the circumstances were different, she’d still be a girl from the districts, 
or at least not Capitol. A second-class citizen. Human, but bestial. 
Smart, perhaps, but not evolved. Part of a shapeless mass of 
unfortunate, barbaric creatures that hovered on the periphery of his 
consciousness. Surely, if there had ever been an exception to the rule, 
it was Lucy Gray Baird. A person who defied easy definition. A rare 
bird, just like him. Why else had the pressure of her lips on his turned 
his knees to water? 

Coriolanus fell asleep that night replaying the kiss in his head... . 

The morning of the Hunger Games dawned bright and clear. He 
readied himself, ate the eggs Tigris prepared for him, and made the 
long, hot walk to Capitol News. He declined the thick makeup that 
Lucky had spackled on his own face, but allowed a light dusting of 
powder, not wanting to be too sweaty for the cameras. Calm and 
unruffled: Those were the qualities a Snow should project. The 


powder smelled sweet but lacked the refinement of his mother’s cake, 


which was tucked in his sock drawer back home. 

“Good morning, Mr. Snow.” Dr. Gaul’s voice snapped him to 
attention. Of course, she was here at the television studio. Where else 
would she be on the opening morning of the Games? 

Why Dean Highbottom had found it necessary to make an 
appearance, he didn’t know, but his bleary eyes peered down at 
Coriolanus. “We hear there was quite a touching scene when you 
parted from your tribute last night.” 

Ugh. Would it be possible to find two people less capable of love? 
How did they even know about the kiss? Professor Sickle didn’t seem 
like a gossip, so who was spreading it around? Probably most of the 
mentors had seen it... . 

Never mind. These two would not get a rise out of him. “As Dr. 
Gaul pointed out, emotions are running high.” 

“Yes, it’s too bad she’s not likely to last the day,” said Dr. Gaul. 

How he hated the pair of them. Gloating. Baiting him. Still, all he 
could allow himself was an indifferent twitch of the shoulders. “Well, 
as they say, it’s not over until the mockingjay sings.” He felt 
satisfaction at the puzzlement on their faces. They did not have a 
chance to question him, because Remus Dolittle appeared to inform 
them that the boy tribute from District 5 had passed away in the night 
due to complications from asthma or some such — anyway, the 
veterinarian couldn’t save him — and they had to go off and address 
his loss. 


Try as he might, Coriolanus couldn’t remember the boy, or even 


which of his classmates had been assigned to mentor him. In 
preparation for the opening of the Games, he’d updated the mentor 
list he’d received from Professor Demigloss. He’d decided, for 
simplicity’s sake, to cross the teams off in pairs, regardless of what 
had happened to them. He didn’t mean to be ruthless, but there was 
no other way to keep it straight. He pulled the list out of his book bag 


now to record this latest casualty. 


10th HUNGER GAMES 


MENTOR ASSIGNMENTS 
DISTRICT 1 
Boy (Facet) Livia Cardew 
Girl (Velvereen) Palmyra Monty 
DISTRICT 2 
Boy (Marcus) Sejanus Plinth 
Girl (Sabyn) Florus Friend 
DISTRICT 3 
Boy (Circ) Io Jasper 
Girl (Teslee) Urban Canville 
DISTRICT 4 
Boy (Mizzen) Persephone Price 
Girl (Coral) Festus Creed 
DISTRICT 5 
Boy (Hy) Dennis Fling 
Girl (Sol) Iphigenia Moss 
DISTRICT 6 
Boy (Otto) Apollo Ring 
Girl (Ginnee) Diana Ring 
DISTRICT 7 
Boy (Treech) Vipsania Sickle 
Girl (Lamina) Pliny Harrington 
DISTRICT 8 
Boy (Bobbin) Juno Phipps 
Girl (Wovey) Hilarius Heavensbee 
DISTRICT 9 
Boy (Panlo) Gaius Breen 
Girl (Sheaf) Androcles Anderson 
DISTRICT 10 
Boy (Tanner) Domitia Whimsiwick 


Girl (Brandy) 


Arachne Crane 


DISTRICT 11 


Boy (Reaper) Clemensia Dovecote 
Girl (Dill) Felix Ravinstill 
DISTRICT 12 

Boy (Jessup) Lysistrata Vickers 
Girl (Lucy Gray) Coriolanus Snow 


The number of Lucy Gray’s competitors had now dropped to 
thirteen. Another gone, and a boy, too. This could only be good news 
for her. 

His mentor sheet had begun to get a bit crumpled, so he folded it 
in crisp quarters and decided to put it in the outside pocket of his 
book bag for easy access. When he opened it, he discovered a 
handkerchief. He puzzled a moment, since his were always on his 
person, then remembered that this was the one Lucy Gray had 
returned after drying her eyes the day he’d brought her the bread 
pudding. It felt good to have something so personal, a talisman of 
sorts, and he slid the list in carefully beside it. 

The only mentors invited to appear on the pre-show were the 
seven who’d participated on interview night. They had, by default, 
become the Capitol faces of the Games, even though several of their 
tributes seemed like long shots. A corner of the studio had been 
outfitted with a few upholstered living room chairs, a coffee table, 
and a slightly crooked chandelier. Most of the mentors rehashed their 
tributes’ backgrounds, playing up any dangerous elements they could. 

Since Coriolanus had devoted his entire interview to Lucy Gray’s 
song, he was the only one with fresh material. Pleased to have 
something new, Lucky Flickerman let him run over his allotted time. 


After filling in the usual details, Coriolanus spent most of the time 


talking about the Covey and emphasizing that Lucy Gray was not 
really district, no, not really at all. The Covey had a long history as 
musical performers, were artists of a kind rarely seen, and were no 
more like district residents than people from the Capitol were. In fact, 
if you thought about it, they almost were Capitol, and only by a series 
of misfortunes had somehow landed, or quite possibly been 
mistakenly detained, in District 12. Surely people could see how at 
home Lucy Gray seemed in the Capitol? And Lucky had to agree that 
yes, yes, there was something special about the girl. 

Lysistrata shot him a look of annoyance as she took his seat, which 
he understood when he realized she was trying to tie Jessup to Lucy 
Gray in her interview and win sympathy for the two as a pair. While it 
was true that Jessup was District 12 coal miner stock through and 
through, hadn’t the two of them shown a natural partnership from the 
first bow? And who hadn’t noticed the unusual closeness between 
them, so often absent in tributes from the same district? In fact, 
Lysistrata was convinced that they were devoted to each other. With 
Jessup’s strength and Lucy Gray’s ability to charm the audience, she 
felt sure this year’s victor would come from District 12. 

The reason for Dean Highbottom’s presence became clear when he 
followed on Lysistrata’s heels. He managed to discuss the mentor- 
tribute program as if he hadn’t been drugged the entire time. Actually, 
Coriolanus found it a little unsettling how lucid some of his 
observations were. He noted that the Capitol students had begun with 


certain prejudices against their district counterparts, but in the two 


weeks since the reaping, many had formed a new appreciation and 
respect for them. “It’s essential, as they say, to know your enemy. So 
what better way to get to know each other than to join forces in the 
Hunger Games? The Capitol won the war only after a long, hard fight, 
and recently our arena was bombed. To imagine that on either side 
we lack intelligence, strength, or courage would be a mistake.” 

“But surely, you’re not comparing our children to theirs?” asked 
Lucky. “One look tells you ours are a superior breed.” 

“One look tells you ours have had more food, nicer clothing, and 
better dental care,” said Dean Highbottom. “Assuming anything more, 
a physical, mental, or especially a moral superiority, would be a 
mistake. That sort of hubris almost finished us off in the war.” 

“Fascinating,” said Lucky, seemingly for lack of a better response. 
“Your views are absolutely fascinating.” 

“Thank you, Mr. Flickerman. I can think of no one whose opinion I 
value more,” deadpanned the dean. 

Coriolanus thought the dean’s eye roll was implied, but Lucky 
blushed in response. “That’s very kind, Mr. Highbottom. As we all 
know, I am only a humble weatherman.” 

“And a budding magician,” Dean Highbottom reminded him. 

“Well, perhaps I’ll plead guilty to that!” said Lucky with a chortle. 
“Hold on, what’s this?” He reached behind Dean Highbottom’s ear and 
pulled out a small, flat candy with bright stripes. “I believe this is 
yours.” He presented it to Dean Highbottom, the colors smearing his 


damp palm. 


Dean Highbottom made no move to take it. “My goodness. Where 
did that come from, Lucky?” 

“Secrets of the trade,” said Lucky with a knowing grin. “Secrets of 
the trade.” 

Cars were waiting to carry them back to the Academy, and 
Coriolanus found himself with Felix and Dean Highbottom. The two 
seemed to know each other socially, and they largely ignored 
Coriolanus while they caught up on gossip. It gave him time to reflect 
on what Dean Highbottom had said about the people in the districts. 
That they were essentially the equals of those in the Capitol, only 
worse off materially. It was a somewhat radical idea for the dean to 
be putting out there. Certainly, the Grandma’am and many others 
would reject it, and it diminished Coriolanus’s own effort, which had 
been to present Lucy Gray as someone completely other than district. 
He wondered how much of that had had to do with a winning 
strategy, and how much of it reflected his confusion about his feelings 
for her. 

It was not until they were headed into the hall, and Felix was 
distracted by a camera crew, that Coriolanus felt a hand on his arm. 
“You know that friend of yours from Two? The emotional one?” Dean 
Highbottom asked him. 

“Sejanus Plinth,” said Coriolanus. Not that they were actually 
friends, but that wasn’t any of Dean Highbottom’s business. 

“You might want to find him a seat near the door.” The dean 


slipped his bottle from his pocket, ducked behind a nearby pillar, and 


dosed himself with morphling drops. 

Before he could consider this, Lysistrata appeared in a temper. 
“Honestly, Coriolanus, you could work with me a little! Jessup keeps 
calling Lucy Gray his ally!” 

“I had no idea that was your pitch. Really, I didn’t mean to trip 
you up. If we get another chance, Pll work in the team angle,” he 
promised. 

“That’s a big if,” said Lysistrata with an exasperated huff. 

Satyria made her way through the crowd and didn’t help the 
situation when she crowed, “What a clever interview, my dear. I half 
believe your girl was Capitol-born myself! Now come on. You, too, 
Lysistrata! You need your badges and communicuffs!” 

She led them through the hall, which, unlike in previous years, 
was buzzing with excitement. People were shouting good luck to him, 
congratulating him on the interview. Coriolanus enjoyed the 
attention, but there was something undeniably disturbing about it as 
well. In the past, these had been subdued occasions, in which people 
avoided eye contact and spoke only when necessary. Now an 
eagerness filled the hall, as if a much-loved entertainment awaited 
them. 

At a table, a Gamemaker oversaw the distribution of mentor 
supplies. While all were given a bright yellow badge with the word 
Mentor emblazoned on it to wear around their necks, only the ones 
with tributes still in the Games were issued communicuffs, making 


them the objects of envy. So much personal technology had 


disappeared during the war and its aftermath, as manufacturing had 
focused on other priorities. These days, even simple devices were a 
big deal. The cuffs buckled onto the wrist and featured a small screen, 
where the tally of sponsor gifts blinked in red. All the mentors had to 
do was scroll down the list of food items, select one from the menu, 
and double-click on it for a Gamemaker to set its delivery by drone in 
motion. Some of the tributes had no gifts at all coming to them. 
Despite not appearing at the interviews, Reaper had picked up a few 
sponsors from his time in the zoo, but Clemensia was nowhere to be 
seen, and her communicuff sat unclaimed at the table, drawing 
covetous looks from Livia. 

Coriolanus drew Lysistrata aside and showed her his screen. 
“Look, I’ve got a small fortune to work with. If they’re together, PI 
send in food for both.” 

“Thank you. I’ll do the same. I didn’t mean to snap like that. It’s 
not your fault. I should’ve brought it up before.” Her voice dropped to 
a hush. “It’s just... I couldn’t sleep last night, thinking about sitting 
through this. I know it’s to punish the districts, but haven’t we 
punished them enough? How long do we have to keep dragging the 
war out?” 

“I think Dr. Gaul believes forever,” he said. “Like she told us in 
class.” 

“Tt’s not just her. Look at everybody.” She indicated the party-like 
atmosphere of the room. “It’s revolting.” 


Coriolanus tried to calm her. “My cousin said to remember this 


isn’t of our making. That we’re still children, too.” 

“That doesn’t help, somehow. Being used like this,” said Lysistrata 
sadly. “Especially when three of us are dead.” 

Used? Coriolanus had not thought of being a mentor as anything 
but an honor. A way to serve the Capitol and perhaps gain a little 
glory. But she had a point. If the cause wasn’t honorable, how could it 
be an honor to participate in it? He felt confused, then manipulated, 
then undefended. As if he were more a tribute than a mentor. 

“Tell me it will be over quickly,” Lysistrata said. 

“It will be over quickly,” Coriolanus reassured her. “Want to sit 
together? We can coordinate our gifts.” 

“Please,” she said. 

The whole school had assembled by this time. They made their 
way over to the section of twenty-four mentor seats, which were set in 
the same place they’d been for the reaping. Everyone able was 
required to attend, whether they had a viable tribute or not. “Let’s not 
sit in the front,” said Lysistrata. “I don’t want that camera right in my 
face when he’s killed.” She was right, of course. The camera would go 
to the mentor, and if Lucy Gray died, especially if Lucy Gray died, he 
was assured a good, long close-up. 

Coriolanus obliged her by heading toward the back row. As they 
settled themselves in, he turned his attention to the giant screen on 
which Lucky Flickerman acted as tour guide to the districts, giving 
background about their industries, spiced with weather facts and the 


occasional magic trick. The Hunger Games had been a big break for 


Lucky, and he was not above accompanying his District 5 spiel on 
energy with some gadget that made his hair stand on end. “It’s 
electrifying!” he panted. 

“You’re an idiot,” muttered Lysistrata, and then something caught 
her attention. “That must’ve been an awful flu.” 

Coriolanus followed her gaze to the table, where Clemensia had 
just collected her communicuff. She was scanning the room for 
someone. ... Oh, it was him! The moment their eyes met, she made a 
beeline for the back row, and she didn’t look happy. She looked 
terrible, really. The bright yellow of her eyes had faded to a pale 
pollen shade, and a long-sleeved, high-collared, white blouse 
concealed the scaly area, but even with those improvements, she 
radiated sickliness. She picked distractedly at the dry patches on her 
face, and her tongue, while not protruding from her mouth, seemed 
bent on exploring the inside of her cheek. She made her way to the 
seat directly in front of him and stood there, flicking bits of skin 
randomly into the air as she examined him. 

“Thanks for visiting, Coryo,” Clemensia said. 

“I meant to, Clemmie, I was pretty beat-up —” he started to 
explain. 

She cut him off. “Thanks for contacting my parents. Thanks for 
letting them know where I was.” 

Lysistrata looked puzzled. “We knew where you were, Clem. They 
said you couldn’t have visitors because you were contagious. I tried to 


call once, but they said you were sleeping.” 


Coriolanus ran with that. “I tried, too, Clemmie. Repeatedly. They 
always gave me the runaround. And as to your parents, the doctors 
promised they were on the way.” None of that was true, but what 
could he say? Obviously, the venom had unbalanced her, or she 
wouldn’t even be bringing the whole incident up in such a public 
setting. “If I was wrong, I’m sorry. As I said, I’ve been recovering 
myself.” 

“Really?” she said. “You looked top-notch at the interview. You 
and your tribute.” 

“Easy, Clem. It’s not his fault you got sick,” said Festus, who’d 
arrived in time to hear enough of the conversation. 

“Oh, shut up, Festus. You have no idea what you’re talking about!” 
Clemensia spat out, and stomped off to take a seat near the front. 

Festus settled down next to Lysistrata. “What’s her problem? Other 
than she looks like she’s molting.” 

“Oh, who knows? Were all a mess,” said Lysistrata. 

“Still, that isn’t like her. I wonder what —” Festus began. 

“Sejanus!” Coriolanus called out, happy for an interruption. “Over 
here!” There was an empty seat next to him, and he needed to shift 
the conversation. 

“Thanks,” said Sejanus, dropping into the seat on the end. He 
looked unwell, exhausted, with a feverish sheen on his skin. 

Lysistrata reached across Coriolanus and pressed one of his hands. 
“The sooner it starts, the sooner it can be over.” 


“Until next year,” he reminded her. But he gave her hand a 


grateful pat back. 

The students had barely been instructed to take their seats when 
the seal of the Capitol overtook the screens and the anthem drew 
everyone to their feet. Coriolanus’s voice rang out over those of the 
other mentors, who mumbled their way through. Honestly, by this 
point, couldn’t they make a little effort? 

When Lucky Flickerman returned and extended his hands in a 
welcoming gesture, Coriolanus could see the bright candy smear from 
the magic trick on his palm. “Ladies and gentlemen,” he said, “let the 
Tenth Hunger Games begin!” 

A wide shot of the arena’s interior replaced Lucky. The fourteen 
tributes who remained on his list were positioned in a large circle, 
awaiting the opening gong. No one paid any attention to them, or to 
the new wreckage from the bombing that littered the field, or to the 
weapons strewn on the dusty ground, or to the flag of Panem strung 
from the stands, adding an unprecedented decorative touch to the 
arena. 

All eyes moved with the camera, riveted as it slowly zoomed in to 
the pair of steel poles not far from the main entrance of the arena. 
They were twenty feet high, joined by a crossbeam of similar length. 
At the center of the structure, Marcus hung from manacled wrists, so 
battered and bloody that at first Coriolanus thought they were 
displaying his corpse. Then Marcus’s swollen lips began to move, 


showing his broken teeth and leaving little doubt he was still alive. 


> 


Coriolanus felt ill but incapable of looking away. It would have 
been horrifying to see any creature displayed this way — a dog, a 
monkey, a rat, even — but a boy? And a boy whose only real crime 
had been to run for his life? Had Marcus gone on a killing spree 
throughout the Capitol, it would have been one thing, but no such 
reports had followed in the wake of his escape. Coriolanus flashed 
back to the funeral parades. The grisliest exhibits — Brandy dangling 
from a hook and the tributes being dragged through the streets — had 
been reserved for the dead. The Hunger Games themselves had the 
twisted brilliance of pitting district child against district child, so the 
Capitol kept its hands clean of actual violence. There was no 
precedent for Marcus’s torture. Under Dr. Gaul’s guidance, the Capitol 
had reached a new level of retaliation. 

The image drained the party atmosphere from Heavensbee Hall. 
The interior of the arena had no microphones, except for a few around 
the oval wall, so none were close enough to hear if Marcus was trying 


to speak. Coriolanus desperately wished for the gong to sound, to 


release the tributes into action and distraction, but the opening stasis 
stretched on. 

He could feel Sejanus shaking with rage, and he had just turned to 
put a quieting hand on him, when the boy sprang from his seat and 
ran forward. The mentor section had five empty chairs in the front 
reserved for their missing classmates. Sejanus grabbed the one on the 
corner and hurled it toward the screen, smashing it into the image of 
Marcus’s ravaged face. “Monsters!” he screamed. “You’re all monsters 
here!” Then he dashed back down the aisle and out the main entrance 
to the hall. No one moved a muscle to stop him. 

The gong sounded at that moment, and the tributes scattered. 
Most fled to the gates that led to the tunnels, several of which had 
been blown open by the latest bombing. Coriolanus could see Lucy 
Gray’s bright dress heading for the far side of the arena, and his 
fingers gripped the edge of his seat, willing her forward. Run, he 
thought. Run! Get out of there! A handful of the strongest sprinted for 
the weapons, but after grabbing a few, Tanner, Coral, and 
Jessup dispersed. Only Reaper, armed with a pitchfork and a long 
knife, seemed ready to engage. But by the time he was on the 
offensive, no one remained to fight. He turned to watch the receding 
backs of his opponents, threw back his head in frustration, and 
climbed into a nearby stand to begin his hunt. 

The Gamemakers took this opportunity to cut back to Lucky. 
“Wish you’d placed a bet but couldn’t make it to the post office? 


Finally decided on a tribute to back?” A phone number flashed at the 


bottom of the screen. “You can do it all by phone now! Just call the 
number below, give your citizen digits, the name of the tribute, and 
the dollar amount you’d like to bet or gift, and you'll be part of the 
action! Or if you’d rather make a transaction in person, the post office 
will be open daily from eight to eight. Come on, don’t miss out on this 
historic moment. It’s your chance to support the Capitol and make a 
tidy profit, too. Be a part of the Hunger Games and be a winner! Now 
back to the arena!” 

Within a few minutes, the arena had cleared of every tribute 
except Reaper, and after roaming around the stands for a bit, he 
ducked out of sight, too. Marcus and his agony became the focus of 
the Games again. 

“Should you go after Sejanus?” Lysistrata whispered to Coriolanus. 

“I think he’d rather be alone,” he whispered back. Which was 
probably true but secondary to the fact that he didn’t want to miss 
anything, trigger a response from Dr. Gaul, or publicly link himself to 
Sejanus. This growing perception that they were great friends, that he 
was the confidant of the loose cannon from the districts, was 
beginning to worry him. Passing out sandwiches was one thing, 
throwing the chair quite another. There were sure to be repercussions, 
and he had enough troubles without adding Sejanus to the list. 

A very long half hour passed before a distraction drew the 
audience’s attention. The bombs near the entrance had blown open 
the main gate, but a barricade had been built under the scoreboard. 


With its multiple layers of concrete slabs, wooden planks, and barbed 


wire, it was both an eyesore and a reminder of the rebel attack, which 
was probably why the Gamemakers hadn’t given it much screen time. 
However, with little else going on, they relented to show the audience 
a skinny, long-limbed girl creeping out from the fortification. 

“That’s Lamina!” Pup told Livia, who was seated next to him a 
couple of rows ahead of Coriolanus. 

Coriolanus had no recollection of Pup’s tribute except that she’d 
been unable to stop weeping at the first mentor-tribute meeting. Pup 
had failed to prepare her for the interview and had thus forfeited his 
chance to promote her. He couldn’t recall her district . . . 5 maybe? 

A rather jarring voice-over set him straight. “Now we see fifteen- 
year-old Lamina from District Seven,” Lucky said. “Mentored by our 
own Pliny Harrington. District Seven has the honor of providing the 
Capitol with the lumber used to repair our beloved arena.” 

Lamina surveyed Marcus, taking in his plight. The summer breeze 
ruffled her blonde halo of hair, and she squinted against the 
brightness of the sun. She wore a dress that looked to be fashioned 
from a flour sack and belted with a piece of rope, and insect bites 
dotted her bare feet and legs. Her eyes, puffy and exhausted, were 
reddened but tearless. In fact, she seemed strangely calm for her 
circumstances. Without haste, without nervousness, she crossed to the 
weapons and took her time choosing first a knife, then a small ax, 
testing each blade for sharpness with the tip of her thumb. She stuck 
the knife in her belt and swung the ax loosely back and forth, feeling 


its weight. Then she made her way to one of the poles. Her hand ran 


down the steel, which was rusty and paint-splattered from some 
previous job. Coriolanus thought she might try to chop it down, being 
from the lumber district and all, but instead she secured the ax handle 
between her teeth and began to climb it, using her knees and 
calloused feet to grip the metal. It looked natural, like a caterpillar 
making its way up a stem, but as someone who’d put in extra hours to 
scale the rope in gym class, he knew the strength it took. 

When she reached the top of the post, Lamina regained her feet 
and slid the ax into her belt. Although the crossbeam couldn’t have 
measured more than six inches in width, she easily walked along it 
until she stood above Marcus. Straddling the beam, she locked her 
ankles for support and leaned over toward his battered head. She said 
something that the microphones couldn’t pick up, but he must have 
heard, because his lips moved in response. Lamina sat upright and 
considered the situation. Then she braced herself again, swung down, 
and drove the ax blade into the curved side of Marcus’s neck. Once. 
Twice. And on the third time, in a spray of blood, she succeeded in 
killing him. Regaining her seat, she wiped her hands clean on her skirt 
and stared off into the arena. 

“That’s my girl!” Pup cried out. Suddenly, he appeared on the 
screen as the Heavensbee Hall camera streamed his reaction. 
Coriolanus caught a glimpse of himself a couple of rows behind Pup 
and sat up straighter. Pup grinned, revealing bits of his morning eggs 
in his braces, and gave a fist pump. “First kill of the day! That’s my 


tribute, Lamina, from District Seven,” he said to the camera. He held 


up his wrist. “And my communicuff is open for business. Never too 
late to show your support and send a gift!” 

The phone number flashed on the screen again, and Coriolanus 
could hear a few faint pings coming from Pup’s communicuff as 
Lamina received some sponsor gifts. The Hunger Games felt more 
fluid, more changeful than he had prepared for. Wake up! he told 
himself. You’re not a spectator, you’re a mentor! 

“Thank you!” Pup waved at the camera. “Well, I think she 
deserves a little something, don’t you?” He fiddled with the 
communicuff and looked up at the screen expectantly as the camera 
jumped back to Lamina. The audience watched with anticipation, as 
this would be the first attempt to deliver a gift to a tribute. A minute 
passed, then five. Coriolanus had begun to wonder if the technology 
had failed the Gamemakers, when a small drone clutching a pint-sized 
bottle of water in its claws appeared over the top of the arena by the 
entrance and made its way shakily to Lamina. It looped and dipped 
and even reversed course before crashing into the crossbeam a good 
ten feet from her and falling to the ground like a swatted insect. The 
bottle had cracked, so the water soaked into the dirt and vanished. 

Lamina stared down at her gift, expressionless, as if she’d expected 
nothing more, but Pup burst out angrily, “Wait a minute! That’s not 
fair. Someone paid good money for that!” The crowd murmured in 
agreement. No immediate remedy followed, but a replacement bottle 
flew in ten minutes later, and this time, Lamina managed to snatch it 


from the drone, which followed its predecessor to a dusty death. 


Lamina took an occasional sip of her water, but other than that, 
little movement occurred except the gathering of flies around 
Marcus’s body. Coriolanus could hear the occasional ping from Pup’s 
communicuff signifying additional gifts to Lamina, who seemed 
content to remain on the crossbeam. It wasn’t a bad strategy, really. 
Safer than the ground, for sure. She had a plan. She could kill. In less 
than an hour, Lamina had redefined herself as a contender in the 
Games. She seemed a lot tougher than Lucy Gray anyway. Wherever 
she was. 

Time passed. With the exception of Reaper, who could 
occasionally be seen prowling the stands, none of the tributes 
presented themselves as hunters, not even the armed ones. Had it not 
been for Marcus’s presentation and Lamina’s finishing him off, it 
would have been an exceptionally slow opening. Usually, some sort of 
bloodbath could be counted on to kick off the Games, but with so 
many of the competitive tributes dead, the field consisted largely of 
prey. 

The arena shrank to a small window at the corner of the screen as 
Lucky appeared, giving more district background and dropping in a 
weather report for good measure. Having a full-time host for the 
Games was new territory, and he struggled to create the role. When 
Tanner climbed up and strolled along the top row of the arena, he 
quickly threw the broadcast back, but the tribute only sat awhile in 
the sun before vanishing into the passages beneath the stands. 


A rustling in the back of Heavensbee Hall turned heads, and 


Coriolanus spotted Lepidus Malmsey making his way up the aisle with 
his camera crew. He invited Pup to join him, and their interview went 
live. Pup, a previously untapped source, rattled off every detail he 
could think of about Lamina and then added several more that 
Coriolanus felt were fabricated, but even that only took a few 
minutes. This set the pattern for the morning. Brief informational 
interviews with mentors. Long expanses of inactivity in the arena. 
Everyone welcomed the lunch break. 

“You lied about it being over quickly,” Lysistrata muttered as they 
lined up for the bacon sandwiches stacked on a table in the hall. 

“Things will pick up,” Coriolanus said. “They have to.” 

But it seemed they didn’t. The long, hot afternoon brought only a 
few more tribute sightings and a quartet of carrion birds that circled 
lazily above Marcus. Lamina managed to hack away at his restraints 
enough to send him tumbling to the ground. For her efforts, Pup sent 
her a slice of bread, which she broke up, rolled into small balls, and 
ate one at a time. Then she stretched out on her stomach, secured her 
spindly frame by tying her rope belt around the beam, and dozed off. 

Capitol News found short-lived relief by streaming the plaza in 
front of the arena, where concession stands had been set up to sell 
drinks and sweets to citizens who’d come down to watch the Games 
on two large screens flanking the entrance. With so little happening in 
the arena, most of the attention ended up on a pair of dogs whose 
owner had dressed them up like Lucy Gray and Jessup. Coriolanus felt 


conflicted about it — he didn’t really like seeing that silly poodle in 


her rainbow ruffles— until a couple of pings registered on his 
communicuff and he decided there was no bad publicity. But the dogs 
tired and were taken home, and still nothing happened. 

Five o’clock was nearing when Lucky introduced Dr. Gaul to the 
audience. He’d become visibly frazzled under the strain of keeping the 
coverage going. Throwing his hands up in bewilderment, he said, 
“What gives, Head Gamemaker?” 

Dr. Gaul basically ignored him, speaking directly to the camera. 
“Some of you may be wondering about the slow start to the Games, 
but let me remind you what a wild ride it’s been just getting here. 
Over a third of the tributes never made it into the arena, and those 
who did, for the most part, weren’t exactly the powerhouses. In terms 
of fatalities, we’re running neck and neck with last year.” 

“Yes, that’s true,” said Lucky. “But I think I speak for a lot of 
people when I say, where are the tributes this year? Usually, they’re 
easier to spot.” 

“Perhaps you’ve forgotten about the recent bombing,” said Dr. 
Gaul. “In previous years, the areas open to the tributes were largely 
restricted to the field and the stands, but last week’s attack opened up 
any number of cracks and crevices, providing easy access to the 
labyrinth of tunnels inside the walls of the arena. It’s a whole new 
Games, first finding another tribute, and then ferreting them out of 
some very dark corners.” 

“Oh.” Lucky looked disappointed. “So we might have seen the last 


of some tributes?” 


“Don’t worry. When they get hungry, they’ll start poking their 
heads out,” Dr. Gaul replied. “That’s another game changer. With the 
audience providing food, the Games could last indefinitely.” 

“Indefinitely?” Lucky said. 

“I hope you’ve got a lot more magic tricks up your sleeve!” 
cackled Dr. Gaul. “You know, I’ve got a rabbit mutt I’d love to see you 
pull out of a hat. It’s part pit bull.” 

Lucky blanched a bit and attempted a laugh. “No, thanks. I’ve got 
my own pets, Dr. Gaul.” 

“T almost feel sorry for him,” Coriolanus whispered to Lysistrata. 

“T don’t,” she answered. “They deserve each other.” 

At five o’clock, Dean Highbottom dismissed the student body, but 
the fourteen mentors with tributes stayed on, largely because their 
communicuffs only worked through transmitters at the Academy or 
the Capitol News station itself. 

Around seven o’clock, a real dinner appeared for the “talent,” 
which made Coriolanus feel important and right at the center of 
things. The pork chops and potatoes were certainly better fare than 
what they had at home — another reason for wanting Lucy Gray to 
stay alive. Sopping up the gravy on his plate, he wondered if she was 
hungry. As they collected their blueberry tarts and cream, he pulled 
Lysistrata aside to discuss the situation. Their tributes should have a 
nice little stash of food from the good-bye meeting, especially if 
Jessup had lost his appetite, but what about water? Was there a 


source inside the arena? And even if they wanted to, how would they 


go about sending in supplies without revealing their tributes’ hiding 
spot? Dr. Gaul was likely right about the tributes poking their heads 
out if they wanted something. Until then, they reasoned, the best 
strategy would be to sit tight. 

As they finished dessert, some activity in the arena drew the 
mentors back to their seats. Io Jasper’s District 3 boy, Circ, crawled 
out of the barricade near the entrance and looked around before 
waving someone in. A small, scruffy girl with dark, frizzy hair 
scrambled out after him. Lamina, still napping on the beam, opened 
one eye to determine their threat level. 

“No worries, my sweet Lamina,” said Pup to the screen. “Those 
two couldn’t climb a stepladder.” Apparently, Lamina agreed, because 
all she did was adjust her body to a more comfortable position. 

Lucky Flickerman came up in the corner of the screen, a napkin 
tucked into his collar and a smudge of blueberry on his chin, and 
reminded the audience that the children were the tributes from 
District 3, the technology district. Circ was the boy who’d claimed he 
could ignite things with his glasses. “And the girl’s name is . . .” Lucky 
glanced off-screen for a cue card. “Teslee! Teslee from Three! And 
she’s being mentored by our own . . .” Lucky looked off again, but this 
time seemed lost. “That would be our own...” 

“Oh, make an effort,” Urban Canville grumbled from the first row. 
Like Io, his parents were some kind of scientists, physicists maybe? 
Urban was so ill-tempered everyone felt fine resenting the perfect 


scores he brought in on calculus tests. Coriolanus thought he could 


hardly blame Lucky for laziness after ditching the interview. Teslee 
looked small but not hopeless. 

“Our own Turban Canville!” said Lucky. 

“Urban, not Turban!” said Urban. “Honestly, could they get a 
professional?” 

“Unfortunately, we did not see Turban and Teslee at the 
interview,” said Lucky. 

“Because she refused to speak to me!” Urban snapped. 

“Somehow immune to his charms,” said Festus, causing the back 
row to laugh. 

“Pm going to send Circ something right now. No telling when Pll 
see him again,” announced Io, working her communicuff. Coriolanus 
could see Urban following suit. 

Circ and Teslee quickly skirted around Marcus’s body and 
crouched down to examine the broken drones. Their hands moved 
delicately over the equipment, assessing the damage, probing into 
compartments that would have gone unnoticed otherwise. Circ 
removed a rectangular object that Coriolanus took for a battery and 
gave Teslee a thumbs-up. Teslee reattached some wires on hers, and 
the drone lights blinked. They grinned at each other. 

“Oh, my!” exclaimed Lucky. “Something exciting happening here!” 

“Tt would be more exciting if they had the controllers,” said Urban, 
but he seemed a little less angry. 

The pair was still examining the drones when two more flew in 


and dropped some bread and water in their general vicinity. As they 


gathered up their gifts, a figure appeared deep in the arena. They 
consulted, then each picked up a drone and hastily beat a path back 
to the barricade. The figure turned out to be Reaper, who ducked into 
one of the tunnels and emerged carrying someone in his arms. As the 
cameras trained on them, Coriolanus saw it was Dill, who seemed to 
have shrunk, her body curled up in the fetal position. She stared dully 
into the evening sun that dappled her ashen skin. A cough brought a 
strand of bloody spittle out of the side of her mouth. 

“Pm surprised she lasted the day,” Felix commented to no one in 
particular. 

Reaper stepped around the debris from the bombing until he 
reached a sunny spot and laid Dill down on a charred piece of wood. 
She shivered despite the heat. He pointed up at the sun and said 
something, but she didn’t react. 

“Isn’t he the one who promised to kill all the others?” asked Pup. 

“Doesn’t look so tough to me,” said Urban. 

“She’s his district partner,” said Lysistrata. “And she’s almost dead 
now. Tuberculosis, probably.” 

That quieted people down, as a bad strain of the stuff still cropped 
up around the Capitol, where it was barely managed as a chronic 
condition, let alone cured. In the districts, of course, it was a death 
sentence. 

Reaper paced restlessly for a minute, either eager to get back to 
the hunt or unable to handle Dill’s suffering. Then he gave her one 


last pat and loped toward the barricade. 


“Shouldn’t you send him something?” Domitia said to Clemensia. 

“What for? He didn’t kill her; he just carried her. I’m not going to 
reward him for that,” Clemensia retorted. 

Coriolanus, who’d been avoiding her all day, decided he’d made 
the right decision. Clemensia wasn’t herself. Maybe the snake venom 
had altered her brain. 

“Well, I might as well use what little I have. It’s hers,” Felix said, 
and punched something into his communicuff. 

Two bottles of water flew in by drone. Dill seemed oblivious to 
them. After a few minutes, the boy who Coriolanus remembered 
juggling sprinted out of a tunnel, his black hair flowing behind him. 
Without missing a step, he reached down and grabbed the water, then 
disappeared through a large crack in the wall. A voice-over from 
Lucky reminded the audience that the boy was Treech, from District 
7, mentored by Vipsania Sickle. 

“Well, that’s harsh,” said Felix. “Might’ve given her one last 
drink.” 

“That’s good thinking,” said Vipsania. “Saves me money, and I 
don’t have much to work with.” 

The sun sank toward the horizon, and the carrion birds wheeled 
slowly over the arena. At last, Dill’s body convulsed with a final, 
violent bout of coughing, and a gush of blood soaked her filthy dress. 
Coriolanus felt unwell. The blood pouring from her mouth both 
horrified and disgusted him. 


Lucky Flickerman came on and announced that Dill, the girl 


tribute from District 11, had died of natural causes. Sadly, that meant 
they wouldn’t be seeing much more of Felix Ravinstill. “Lepidus, can 
we have a few last words with him from Heavensbee Hall?” 

Lepidus pulled Felix out and asked him how he felt about having 
to leave the Games. 

“Well, it isn’t a shock, really. The girl was on her last legs when 
she got here,” said Felix. 

“T think it’s enormously to your credit that you got her through the 
interview,” said Lepidus sympathetically. “Many mentors didn’t 
manage even that.” 

Coriolanus wondered if Lepidus’s high praise had more to do with 
Felix’s being the grandnephew of the president than anything else, but 
he didn’t begrudge it. It set a precedent for a level of success that he’d 
already surpassed, so even if Lucy Gray didn’t last the night, he could 
still be viewed as a standout. But she must last the night, and then 
another, and then another until she won. He had promised to help 
her, but so far he’d done absolutely nothing except promote her to the 
audience. 

Back in the studio, Lucky heaped a few more compliments on Felix 
and signed off. “As night falls on the arena, most of our tributes have 
bedded down, and so should you. We’ll keep an eye on things here, 
but we don’t really expect much action until morning. Pleasant 
dreams.” 

The Gamemakers cut to a wide shot of the arena, where the 


silhouette of Lamina on her beam was about all Coriolanus could 


make out. After dark, the arena had no lighting except what the moon 
provided, and that usually didn’t make for good viewing. Dean 
Highbottom said they might as well go home, although bringing a 
toothbrush and a change of clothes for the future would be a good 
idea. They all shook hands with Felix and congratulated him on a job 
well done, and most of them meant it, as the day had cemented the 
mentor bond in a brand-new way. They were members of a special 
club that would dwindle down to one but always define them all. 

As he walked home, Coriolanus did the math. Two more tributes 
were dead, but he’d stopped counting Marcus as a contender awhile 
back. Still, only thirteen left, and only twelve competitors that Lucy 
Gray needed to survive. And, as Dill and the asthmatic boy from 
District 5 had proven, a lot of it could come down to a matter of her 
simply outliving the others. He thought back to yesterday: wiping 
away her tears, the promise to keep her alive, the kiss. Was she 
thinking of him now? Was she missing him the way he was missing 
her? He hoped she would make an appearance tomorrow and he 
could get her some food and water. Remind the audience of her 
existence. He’d only had a few new gifts in the afternoon, and that 
might’ve been due to her alliance with Jessup. Lucy Gray’s charming 
songbird persona was becoming less impressive with each grim 
moment in the Hunger Games. No one knew about the rat poison but 
him, so that didn’t help her standing. 

Hot and tired from the stressful day, he wanted nothing more than 


to shower and sink into bed, but the moment he stepped into the 


apartment, the fragrance of the jasmine tea reserved for company 
wafted over him. Who would be visiting at this hour? And on opening 
day, at that? It was far too late for the Grandma’am’s friends, far too 
late for neighbors to be dropping in, and they weren’t the dropping-in 
kind anyway. Something must be wrong. 

The Snows rarely used the television in the formal living room, 
but, of course, they had one. Its screen showed the darkened arena, 
just as he’d left it at Heavensbee Hall. The Grandma’am, who'd pulled 
a decent robe over her nightdress, perched stiffly on a straight-backed 
chair at the tea table while Tigris poured out a steaming cup of pale 
liquid for their guest. 

For there sat Mrs. Plinth, frumpier than ever, her hair disheveled 
and her dress awry, crying into a handkerchief. “You’re such nice 
people,” she sputtered. “I’m so sorry to have dropped in on you like 
this.” 

“Any friend of Coriolanus is a friend of us all,” said the 
Grandma’am. “Plinch, did you say?” 

Coriolanus knew she knew exactly who Ma was, but to be forced 
to entertain anyone, let alone a Plinth, at this hour challenged 
everything she stood for. 

“Plinth,” said the woman. “Plinth.” 

“You know, Grandma’am, she sent the lovely casserole when 
Coriolanus was injured,” Tigris reminded her. 

“Tm sorry. It’s too late,” said Mrs. Plinth. 


“Please don’t apologize. You did exactly the right thing,” said 


Tigris, patting her shoulder. She spotted Coriolanus and looked 
relieved. “Oh, here’s my cousin now! Perhaps he knows something.” 

“Mrs. Plinth, what an unexpected pleasure. Is everything all 
right?” Coriolanus asked, as if she wasn’t dripping with bad news. 

“Oh, Coriolanus. It isn’t. Not at all. Sejanus hasn’t come home. We 
heard he left the Academy this morning, and I haven’t seen him since. 
I’m so worried,” she said. “Where can he be? I know Marcus being 
like that hit him hard. Do you know? Do you know where he could 
be? Was he upset when he left?” 

Coriolanus remembered that Sejanus’s outburst, the throwing of 
the chair, the shouting of insults, had been confined to the audience 
in Heavensbee Hall. “He was upset, ma’am. But I don’t know that it’s 
any cause for worry. He probably just needed to blow off some steam. 
Took a long walk or something. I’d do the same thing myself.” 

“But it’s so late. It isn’t like him to up and disappear, not without 
letting his ma know,” she fretted. 

“Is there anywhere you can think of he might go? Or somebody he 
might visit?” asked Tigris. 

Mrs. Plinth shook her head. “No. No. Your cousin’s his only 
friend.” 

How sad, thought Coriolanus. To have no friends. But he only said, 
“You know, if he’d wanted company, I think he’d have come to me 
first. You can see how he might have needed some time alone to... 
to make sense of all this. ’'m sure he’s all right. Otherwise you’d have 


heard of it.” 


“Did you check with the Peacekeepers?” asked Tigris. 

Mrs. Plinth nodded. “No sign of him.” 

“You see?” said Coriolanus. “There’s been no trouble. Maybe he’s 
even home by now.” 

“Perhaps you should go and check,” suggested the Grandma’am, a 
little too obviously. 

Tigris shot her a look. “Or you could just call.” 

But Mrs. Plinth had calmed down enough to take the hint. “No. 
Your grandma’s right. Home is the place I should be. And I should let 
you all get to bed.” 

“Coriolanus will walk you,” said Tigris firmly. 

As she’d left him no choice, he nodded. “Of course.” 

“My car’s waiting down the block.” Mrs. Plinth rose and patted her 
hair down. “Thank you. You’ve all been so kind. Thank you.” She’d 
gathered up her voluminous handbag and was starting to turn when 
something on the screen caught her eye. She froze. 

Coriolanus followed her gaze and saw a shadowy shape slip out of 
the barricade and cross toward Lamina. The figure was tall, male, and 
carrying something in his hands. Reaper or Tanner, he thought. The 
boy stopped when he reached Marcus’s corpse and looked up at the 
sleeping girl. I guess one of the tributes finally decided to make a move on 
her. He knew he should watch, as a mentor, but he really wanted to 
get rid of Mrs. Plinth first. 

“Shall I walk you to your car?” he asked. “I bet you'll find Sejanus 
in bed.” 


“No, Coriolanus,” said Mrs. Plinth in a hushed voice. “No.” She 


nodded at the screen. “My boy’s right there.” 


< 


The moment Ma said it, Coriolanus knew she was right. Perhaps 
only a mother would make the connection in that gloom, but with her 
prompting he recognized Sejanus. Something about the posture, the 
slight stoop, the line of the forehead. The white Academy uniform 
shirt glowed faintly in the dark, and he could almost make out the 
bright yellow mentor badge, still hanging by the lanyard on his chest. 
How Sejanus had gotten into the arena, he had no idea. A Capitol boy, 
a mentor no less, might not have drawn too much attention at the 
entrance, where you could buy fried dough and pink lemonade, where 
you could join the crowd watching the Games on the screen. Had he 
merely blended in, or even used his minor celebrity to set suspicions 
at bay? My tribute’s finished, so I may as well enjoy myself! Posed for 
pictures? Chatted up the Peacekeepers and slipped in somehow while 
their backs were turned? Who would think he’d want to enter the 
arena, and why on earth had he? 


On-screen, a shadowy Sejanus knelt, set down a parcel, and rolled 


Marcus onto his back. He did his best to straighten the legs, to fold 
the arms on the chest, but the limbs had grown stiff and defied 
arrangement. Coriolanus couldn’t tell what was happening next, 
something with the parcel, but then Sejanus rose to his feet and held 
his hand over the body. 

That’s what he did at the zoo, thought Coriolanus. He remembered 
when, after Arachne’s death, he’d caught a glimpse of Sejanus 
sprinkling something over the dead tribute’s body. 

“That’s your son in there? What’s he doing?” asked the 
Grandma’am, aghast. 

“He’s putting bread crumbs on the body,” said Ma. “So Marcus has 
food on his journey.” 

“His journey where?” asked the Grandma’am. “He’s dead!” 

“Back to wherever he came from,” said Ma. “It’s what we do, back 
home. When someone dies.” 

Coriolanus couldn’t help feeling embarrassed for her. If you ever 
needed proof of the districts’ backwardness, there you had it. 
Primitive people with their primitive customs. How much bread had 
they wasted with this nonsense? Oh, no, he starved to death! Somebody 
get the bread! He had a sinking feeling that his supposed friendship 
was going to come back to haunt him. As if on cue, the phone rang. 

“Ts the whole city up?” wondered the Grandma’am. 

“Excuse me.” Coriolanus crossed to the phone in the foyer. 
“Hello?” he said into the receiver, hoping it was a wrong number. 


“Mr. Snow, it’s Dr. Gaul.” Coriolanus felt his insides contract. “Are 


you near a screen?” 

“Just got home, actually,” he answered, trying to buy time. “Oh, 
yes, there it is. My family’s watching.” 

“What’s going on with your friend?” she asked. 

Coriolanus turned his head away from the gathering and lowered 
his voice. “He’s not really . . . that.” 

“Nonsense. You’ve been thick as thieves,” she said. “‘Help me give 
away my sandwiches, Coriolanus! ‘Empty seat next to me, Sejanus! 
When I asked Casca what classmates he was close to, yours was the 
only name he could think of.” 

His civility to Sejanus had obviously been misread. Really, they 
were hardly more than acquaintances. “Dr. Gaul, if you’d let me 
explain —” 

“I don’t have time for explanations. Right now the Plinth brat’s 
loose in the arena with a pack of wolves. If they see him, they’ll kill 
him on the spot.” She turned to speak to someone else. “No, don’t cut 
away abruptly, that will only draw attention. Just make it as dark as 
you can. Make it look natural. A slow blackout, as if a cloud has 
drifted over the moon.” She was back in the next breath. “You’re a 
smart boy. What message will that send to the audience? The damage 
will be considerable. We must remedy the situation at once.” 

“You could send in some Peacekeepers,” Coriolanus said. 

“And have him bolt like a rabbit?” she scoffed. “Imagine that for a 
moment, the Peacekeepers trying to chase him down in the dark. No, 


we'll have to lure him out, as uneventfully as possible, so we’ll need 


people he cares about. He can’t stand his father, no siblings, no other 
friends. That leaves you and his mother. Were trying to locate her 
now.” 

Coriolanus felt his heart sink. “She’s right here,” he admitted. So 
much for his “acquaintances” defense. 

“Well, done and done. I want you both here at the arena in twenty 
minutes. More, and it will be me serving you with a demerit, not 
Highbottom, and you can kiss any chance of a prize good-bye.” With 
that, she hung up. 

On his television, Coriolanus could see that the image had 
darkened. He could barely make out Sejanus’s figure at all now. “Mrs. 
Plinth, that was the Head Gamemaker. She’d like you to meet her at 
the arena to collect Sejanus, and I’m to accompany you.” He could 
hardly admit to more without giving the Grandma’am a heart attack. 

“Is he in trouble?” she asked, wide-eyed. “With the Capitol?” 

Coriolanus found it strange that she’d be more worried about the 
Capitol than an arena full of armed tributes at this point, but maybe 
she had reason after what had happened to Marcus. 

“Oh, no. They’re just concerned with his well-being. Shouldn’t be 
long, but don’t wait up,” he told Tigris and the Grandma’am. 

As fast as he could, short of carrying her, he moved Mrs. Plinth out 
the door, down the elevator, and through the lobby. Her car rolled up 
soundlessly, and the driver, most likely an Avox, only nodded at his 
request to be taken to the arena. 


“We’re rather in a hurry,” Coriolanus told the driver, and the car 


sped up immediately, gliding through the empty streets. If it was 
possible to cover the distance in twenty minutes, they would. 

Mrs. Plinth clutched her handbag and stared out the window at 
the deserted city. “First time I saw the Capitol, it was night, like this.” 

“Oh, yes?” said Coriolanus, only to be polite. Honestly, who 
cared? His entire future was on the line because of her wayward son. 
And one had to question the parenting of a boy who thought breaking 
into the arena would solve anything. 

“Sejanus sat right where you are, saying, ‘It’ll be all right, Ma. It’ll 
be okay.’ Trying to calm me down. When we both knew it was a 
disaster,” said Mrs. Plinth. “But he was so brave. So good. Only 
thinking of his ma.” 

“Hm. Must have been a big change.” What was it with the Plinths 
anyway? To be constantly turning advantage to tragedy? You needed 
only to take a cursory glance at the interior of this car, the tooled 
leather, the upholstered seats, the bar with its crystal bottles of gem- 
colored liquids, to know they were among the most fortunate people 
in Panem. 

“Family and friends cut us off,” Mrs. Plinth went on. “No new ones 
to be made here. Strabo — his pa, that is — still thinks it was the 
right thing to do. No kind of future in Two. His way of protecting us. 
His way of keeping Sejanus from the Games.” 

“Tronic, really. Given the circumstances.” Coriolanus tried to 
redirect her. “Now, I don’t know what Dr. Gaul has in mind, but I 


imagine she wants your help getting him out of there.” 


“T don’t know if I can,” she said. “Him so upset and all. I can try, 
but he’ll have to think it’s the right thing to do.” 

The right thing to do. Coriolanus realized that this was what had 
always defined Sejanus’s actions, his determination to do the right 
thing. That insistence, the way, for instance, he would defy Dr. Gaul 
when the rest of them were just trying to get by, was another reason 
he alienated people. Frankly, he could be insufferable with those 
superior little comments of his. But playing on that might be the way 
to manipulate him. 

As the car pulled up to the entrance of the arena, Coriolanus saw 
an effort had been made to conceal the crisis. Only a dozen or so 
Peacekeepers were present, and a handful of Gamemakers. The 
refreshment booths had shut down, the day’s crowd had dispersed 
earlier, so there was little to draw curious spectators. Stepping out, he 
noticed how quickly the temperature had dropped since his walk 
home. 

In the back of a van, a Capitol News monitor displayed a split 
screen with the actual feed of the arena next to the darkened version 
going out to the public. Dr. Gaul, Dean Highbottom, and a few 
Peacekeepers were gathered around it. As Coriolanus walked up with 
Mrs. Plinth, he made out Sejanus kneeling next to Marcus’s body, still 
as a statue. 

“At least you’re punctual,” said Dr. Gaul. “Mrs. Plinth, I presume?” 

“Yes, yes,” said Mrs. Plinth, a quaver in her voice. “I’m sorry if 


Sejanus has caused any inconvenience. He’s a good boy, really. It’s 


just he takes things so to heart.” 

“No one could accuse him of being indifferent,” Dr. Gaul agreed. 
She turned to Coriolanus. “Any idea how we might rescue your best 
friend, Mr. Snow?” 

Coriolanus ignored the barb and examined the screen. “What’s he 
doing?” 

“Just kneeling there, looks like,” said Dean Highbottom. “Possibly 
in some kind of shock.” 

“He appears calm. Perhaps you could send the Peacekeepers in 
now without startling him?” suggested Coriolanus. 

“Too risky,” said Dr. Gaul. 

“What about putting his mother on a speaker, or a bullhorn?” 
Coriolanus continued. “If you can darken the screen, surely you can 
manipulate the audio as well.” 

“On the broadcast. But in the arena, we’d alert every tribute to the 
fact that there’s an unarmed Capitol boy in their midst,” said Dean 
Highbottom. 

Coriolanus began to get a bad feeling. “What do you propose?” 

“We think someone he knows needs to slip in as unobtrusively as 
possible and coax him out,” said Dr. Gaul. “Namely, you.” 

“Oh, no!” burst out Mrs. Plinth with surprising sharpness. “It can’t 
be Coriolanus. The last thing we need is to put another child in 
danger. I’ll do it.” 

Coriolanus appreciated the offer but knew the chances of this were 


slim. With her red, swollen eyes and wobbly high heels, she did not 


inspire confidence as a covert operator. 

“What we need is someone who can make a run for it, if necessary. 
Mr. Snow is the man for the job.” Dr. Gaul gestured to some 
Peacekeepers, and Coriolanus found himself being suited up in body 
armor for the arena. “This vest should protect your vital organs. 
Here’s your pepper spray and a flash unit that will temporarily blind 
your enemies, should you make any.” 

He looked at the small bottle of pepper spray and the flash unit. 
“What about a gun? Or at least a knife?” 

“Since you’re not trained, this seems safer. Remember, you’re not 
in there to do damage; you’re in there to bring your friend out as 
quickly and quietly as possible,” instructed Dr. Gaul. 

Another student, or even the Coriolanus of a couple of weeks ago, 
would have protested this situation. Insisted on calling a parent or 
guardian. Pleaded. But after the snake attack on Clemensia, the 
aftermath of the bombing, and Marcus’s torture, he knew it would be 
pointless. If Dr. Gaul decided he was to go into the Capitol Arena, 
that’s where he would go, even if his prize was not at stake. He was 
just like the subjects of her other experiments, students or tributes, of 
no more consequence than the Avoxes in the cages. Powerless to 
object. 

“You can’t do this. He’s just a boy. Let me call my husband,” 
begged Mrs. Plinth. 

Dean Highbottom gave Coriolanus a little smile. “He’ll be all right. 


It takes a lot to kill a Snow.” 


Had this whole idea been the dean’s? Had he seen a neat shortcut 
to his ultimate goal of destroying Coriolanus’s future? At any rate, he 
seemed deaf to Ma’s entreaties. 

With Peacekeepers at either elbow — for his safety, or to prevent 
him from bolting? — he crossed to the arena. He had little 
recollection of being carried out after the bombing — perhaps they’d 
gone out another exit? — but now he could see the significant damage 
to the main entrance. One of the two great doors had been entirely 
blown away, leaving a wide hole framed with twisted metal. Besides 
the guard, little had been done to secure this area other than placing a 
few rows of waist-high concrete barriers across the opening. Sejanus 
wouldn’t have had much trouble getting past those if there’d been a 
decent distraction, and there’d been the bustle of a carnival most of 
the day. If the Peacekeepers had been concerned about rebel activity, 
they would have been focused on someone targeting the crowd. Still, 
it seemed a little too relaxed. What if the tributes tried to make a 
break for it again? 

Coriolanus and his escort wove their way through the barriers and 
into the lobby, which had taken multiple hits. The few unbroken 
electric bulbs around the admission and concession booths showed a 
layer of plaster dust coating chunks of ceiling and floor, toppled 
pillars and fallen beams. To reach the turnstiles required navigating 
the debris, and again he could see how Sejanus might have crossed it 
undetected, with a little patience and a bit of luck. The turnstiles on 


the far right side had been targeted, leaving gnarled, melted metal 


shards and open access. Here, the Peacekeepers had built the first real 
fortification, installing a temporary set of bars encased in barbed wire, 
and a half dozen armed guards. The undamaged turnstiles were still 
an effective blockade, as they did not allow reentry. 

“So he had a token?” asked Coriolanus. 

“He had a token,” confirmed an old Peacekeeper who seemed to 
be in command. “Caught us off guard. We’re not really looking for 
people breaking into the arena during the Games, only out.” He 
produced a token from his pocket. “This one’s for you.” 

Coriolanus turned the disk in his fingers but made no move to the 
turnstiles. “How did he think he’d get out?” 

“T don’t think he did,” said the Peacekeeper. 

“And how will I get out?” asked Coriolanus. This plan seemed 
dicey at best. 

“There.” The Peacekeeper pointed to the bars. “We can pull back 
the barbed wire and tilt the bars forward, creating an opening big 
enough for you to crawl under.” 

“You can do that quickly?” he said doubtfully. 

“We’ve got you on camera. We'll start moving the bars when 
you’re successfully bringing him out,” the Peacekeeper assured him. 

“And if I can’t convince him to come?” Coriolanus asked. 

“We have no instructions on that.” The Peacekeeper shrugged. “I 
guess you stay until the mission is accomplished.” 

A cold sweat bathed Coriolanus’s body as the words registered. He 


would not be allowed back out without Sejanus. He looked through 


the turnstile to the end of the passage, where the barricade had been 
erected under the scoreboard. The one he’d seen Lamina, Circ, and 
Teslee scampering in and out of earlier in the Games. “What about 
that?” 

“That’s for show, really. It blocks the view of the lobby, of the 
street. Can’t put that on camera,” the Peacekeeper explained. “But you 
won't have trouble getting through it.” 

Then neither would the tributes, Coriolanus thought. He ran his 
thumb over the slick surface of the token. 

“We’ve got you covered up to the barricade,” the Peacekeeper 
said. 

“So you'll kill any tributes who attack me,” Coriolanus clarified. 

“Scare them off anyway,” said the Peacekeeper. “Don’t worry, 
we've got your back.” 

“Excellent,” said Coriolanus, not at all convinced. He steeled 
himself and jammed the token in the slot, then he pushed the metal 
arms. “Enjoy the show!” the turnstile reminded him, sounding ten 
times louder in the stillness of the night. One of the Peacekeepers 
chuckled. 

Coriolanus made for the wall on the right and walked forward as 
swiftly and silently as he could. The red emergency lights, his only 
illumination, suffused the passageway with a soft, bloody glow. He 
pressed his lips tightly together, controlling his breathing through his 
nose. Right, left, right, left. Nothing, no one stirred. Perhaps, as Lucky 
had suggested, the tributes had all bedded down for the night? 


He paused for a moment at the barricade. Just as the Peacekeeper 
had said, it was a sham. Flimsy layers of barbed wire mounted on 
frames, rickety wooden structures and concrete slabs arranged to 
block the view, not imprison the tributes. Probably hadn’t been 
enough time for a real one, or perhaps it had been deemed 
unnecessary with the bars and Peacekeepers behind him. As it was, he 
had only to wind his way through the backdrop to find himself at the 
edge of the field. He hesitated behind a final stretch of barbed wire, 
surveying the scene. 

The moon had risen high in the sky, and in the pale, silvery light 
he could make out the figure of Sejanus, back toward him, still 
kneeling over Marcus’s body. Lamina hadn’t stirred. Other than that, 
the immediate area seemed deserted. Was it, though? The wreckage 
from the bombings provided ample hiding places. The other tributes 
could be concealed a few yards away and he’d never know it. In the 
chilly air, his sweat-soaked shirt felt clammy against his skin, and he 
wished for his jacket. He thought of Lucy Gray in her sleeveless dress. 
Had she curled up against Jessup for warmth? The image didn’t sit 
well with him, so he pushed it away. He could not think of her now, 
only of the present danger, and Sejanus, and how to get him to the 
other side of that turnstile. 

Coriolanus took a deep breath and stepped out onto the field. He 
padded across the dirt, channeling the circus wildcats he had seen 
here as a boy. Fearless, and powerful, and silent. He knew he must not 


spook Sejanus, but he needed to get close enough to converse. 


When he was ten feet behind him, he stopped and spoke in a 
hushed voice. “Sejanus? It’s me.” 

Sejanus stiffened, then his shoulders began to shake. At first, 
Coriolanus took it for sobbing, but it was quite the opposite. “You 
really can’t stop rescuing me, can you?” 

Coriolanus joined in the laughter under his breath. “Can’t do it.” 

“They sent you in to fish me out? What madness.” Sejanus’s 
laughter trailed off, and he rose to his feet. “Did you ever see a dead 
body?” 

“A lot. During the war.” He took it as an invitation to join Sejanus 
and closed in. There. He could grab his arm now, but what then? It 
was unlikely he could drag him from the arena. He shoved his hands 
into his pockets instead. 

“T haven’t so much. Not this close. At funerals, I guess. And at the 
zoo the other night, only those girls hadn’t been dead long enough to 
stiffen up,” Sejanus said. “I don’t know if Pd rather be burned or 
buried. Not that it matters, really.” 

“Well, you don’t have to decide now.” Coriolanus’s eyes swept the 
field. Was that a person in the shadows behind the broken wall? 

“Oh, it won’t be up to me,” said Sejanus. “I don’t know what’s 
taking the tributes so long to find me. I must have been in here 
awhile.” He looked at Coriolanus for the first time, and his brow 
wrinkled in concern. “You should go, you know.” 

“Pd like to,” Coriolanus said carefully. “I really would. Only 


there’s the matter of your ma. She’s waiting out front. Pretty upset. I 


promised I’d bring you to her.” 

Sejanus’s expression turned indescribably sad. “Poor Ma. Poor old 
Ma. She never wanted any of this, you know. Not the money, not the 
move, not the fancy clothes or the driver. She just wanted to stay in 
Two. But my father... Bet he isn’t here, is he? No, he’ll keep his 
distance until this is settled. Then let the buying begin!” 

“Buying what?” The breeze ruffled Coriolanus’s hair and made 
hollow, echoing sounds in the arena. This was taking too long, and 
Sejanus was making no effort to speak softly. 

“Buying everything! He bought our way here, bought my 
schooling, bought my mentorship, and he goes nuts because he can’t 
buy me,” said Sejanus. “He’ll buy you if you let him. Or at least 
compensate you for trying to help me.” 

Buy away, thought Coriolanus, thinking of next year’s tuition. He 
only said, “You’re my friend. He doesn’t need to pay me to help you.” 

Sejanus laid a hand on his shoulder. “You’re the only reason I’ve 
lasted this long, Coriolanus. I need to stop causing you trouble.” 

“T didn’t realize how bad this was for you. I should have traded 
tributes when you asked,” he answered. 

Sejanus sighed. “It doesn’t matter anymore. Nothing does, really.” 

“Of course it matters,” Coriolanus insisted. They were coming 
now, he could feel it. The sense of a pack closing in on him. “Come 
out with me.” 

“No. There’s no point,” said Sejanus. “There’s nothing left to do 


but die.” 


Coriolanus pressed him. “That’s it? That’s your only choice?” 

“It’s the only way I might possibly make a statement. Let the world 
see me die in protest,” Sejanus concluded. “Even if I’m not truly 
Capitol, Pm not district either. Like Lucy Gray, but without the 
talent.” 

“Do you really think they’ll show this? They’ll quietly remove your 
body and say you died of the flu.” Coriolanus stopped, wondering if 
he’d said too much, if it pointed too directly at Clemensia’s fate. But it 
wasn’t as if Dr. Gaul and Dean Highbottom could hear him. “They’ve 
all but blacked out the screen now.” 

Sejanus’s face clouded over. “They won’t show it?” 

“Not in a million years. You'll be dead for nothing, and you'll have 
wasted your chance to make things better.” A cough, small and 
muffled, but definitely a cough. Coming from the stands to his right. 
Coriolanus had not imagined it. 

“What chance?” asked Sejanus. 

“You have money. Maybe not now, but one day you'll have a 
fortune. Money has a lot of uses. Look how it changed your world. 
Maybe you could make changes, too. Good ones. Maybe if you don’t, 
a lot more people will suffer.” Coriolanus’s right hand tightened 
around his pepper spray, then flitted to his flash unit. Which would 
actually help if he was attacked? 

“What makes you think I could do that?” said Sejanus. 

“You’re the only one who had the guts to stand up to Dr. Gaul,” 


said Coriolanus. He hated giving that to him, but it was true. He was 


the sole member of the class who’d defied her. 

“Thank you.” Sejanus sounded tired but a bit saner. “Thank you 
for that.” 

Coriolanus put his free hand on Sejanus’s arm, as if comforting 
him, but really to grip his shirt if he decided to run. “We’re being 
surrounded. I’m going. Come with me.” He could see Sejanus starting 
to cave. “Please. What do you want to do, fight the tributes or fight 
for them? Don’t give Dr. Gaul the satisfaction of beating you. Don’t 
give up.” 

Sejanus stared down at Marcus for a long moment, weighing his 
options. “You're right,” he said finally. “If I believe what I say, it’s my 
responsibility to take her down. To end this whole atrocity somehow.” 
He lifted his head, as if suddenly realizing their situation. His eyes 
turned to the stands, where Coriolanus had heard the cough. “But I 
won't leave Marcus.” 

Coriolanus made a snap judgment. “TIl get his feet.” The legs were 
stiff and heavy, reeking of blood and filth, but he crooked the knees in 
his arms as best he could and hoisted Marcus’s lower half. Sejanus 
encircled his chest with his arms, and they began to move, half 
carrying, half dragging the body toward the barricade. Ten yards, five 
yards, not far now. Once they’d cleared it, the Peacekeepers should 
provide some cover. 

He tripped on a rock and went down, driving his knee into 
something sharp and piercing, but sprang back up, heaving Marcus’s 


body with him. Almost there. Almost — 


The footsteps came from behind him. Quick and light. Speeding 
from the barricade, where the tribute had lain in wait. Coriolanus 
reflexively dropped Marcus and spun around just in time to see 


Bobbin bring down his knife. 


< 


The blade glanced off his body armor and sliced his left upper 
arm. As Coriolanus leaped backward, he swung at Bobbin but only 
encountered air. He landed in a pile of debris, old boards, and plaster 
as his hand searched for some kind of defense. Bobbin sprang at him 
again, aiming the knife at his face. Coriolanus’s fingers closed around 
a two-by-four, and he brought it up, catching Bobbin in the temple 
hard, sending him to his knees. And then he was on his feet, using the 
board like a club, bringing it down again and again without being 
sure where it made contact. 

“We have to go!” Sejanus shouted. 

Coriolanus could hear catcalls now, and feet pounding down the 
bleachers. Confused, he made a move toward Marcus’s body, but 
Sejanus yanked him away. “No! Leave him! Run!” 

Needing no persuasion, Coriolanus sprinted for the barricade. Pain 
shot from his elbow to his shoulder, but he ignored it, pumping his 


arms as hard as he could, the way Professor Sickle had taught them. 


When he reached the barricade, barbed wire bit into his shirt, and as 
he turned to pull it free, he saw them. The two tributes from District 
4, Coral and Mizzen, and Tanner — the slaughterhouse kid — making 
straight for him, armed to the teeth. Mizzen drew his arm back to 
throw a trident. The fabric on Coriolanus’s sleeve ripped wide as he 
yanked it from the barbed wire and dove out of the line of fire, with 
Sejanus right behind him. 

Only a few weak rays of moonlight penetrated the layers of the 
barricade, and Coriolanus found himself crashing into wood and 
fencing like a wild bird in a cage, surely alerting any tribute who’d 
somehow missed his presence. He ran facefirst into a concrete slab, 
and Sejanus plowed into him from behind, smacking his forehead into 
the unrelenting surface a second time. When he pushed back, it was as 
if the concussion had never left. His head throbbed, and a cloud of 
confusion descended. 

The tributes started up a whooping sound, rattling their weapons 
against the barricade as they tracked the mentors through the 
labyrinth. Which direction to go? The tributes seemed to be all around 
them. Sejanus grabbed his arm and began to pull him, and he 
stumbled blindly along behind, wounded and terrified. Was this it, 
then? Was this how he died? The fury at the injustice of it all, the 
mockery it made of his existence, sent a surge of energy through him, 
and he crashed past Sejanus, finding himself on his hands and knees 
in a cloud of soft, red light. The passageway! Up ahead he could make 


out the turnstiles, where the Peacekeepers were clustered at the 


temporary bars. He ran for his life. 

The passageway wasn’t long, but it seemed interminable. His legs 
rose and fell as if he were waist-high in glue, and black specks dotted 
his vision. Sejanus stayed steady at his elbow, but he could hear the 
tributes gaining. Something heavy and unyielding — a brick? — 
clipped the side of his neck. Another object punctured his vest and 
stuck, bobbing behind him until it fell with a clank. Where was the 
cover? The protective gunfire from the Peacekeepers? There was 
nothing, nothing at all, and the bars still stood flush with the floor. He 
wanted to scream for them to kill the tributes, shoot them dead in 
their tracks, but his breath was in too short supply. 

Someone heavy-footed shrank his lead to a few yards, but once 
again remembering Professor Sickle’s training, he didn’t dare waste a 
second looking back to see who it was. Before him, the Peacekeepers 
finally managed to tilt the unit of bars inward, achieving a gap of 
about twelve inches at the ground. Coriolanus dove, sanding several 
layers of skin off his chin on the rough floor and just getting his hands 
beneath the bars, where the Peacekeepers latched on to him and gave 
a great yank. Lacking time to turn his head, the rest of his face 
scraped against the filthy surface until he reached safety. 

The guards dumped him immediately to retrieve Sejanus, who 
gave a sharp cry as Tanner’s knife cut open the back of his calf before 
he slid out of range. The bars were slammed into place, and bolts 
locked down the unit, but the tributes were undeterred. Tanner, 


Mizzen, and Coral jabbed their weapons through the bars at 


Coriolanus and Sejanus, spewing hate-filled taunts while the 
Peacekeepers banged on the turnstiles with their batons. Not a shot 
was fired. Not even a shot of pepper spray. Coriolanus realized that 
they must have been under orders to leave the tributes untouched. 

As the Peacekeepers helped him to his feet, he spat out in rage, 
“Thanks for having our backs!” 

“Just following orders. Don’t blame us if Gaul thinks you’re 


? 


expendable, boy,” said the old Peacekeeper who’d promised him 
cover. 

Someone tried to steady him but he shoved them off. “I can walk! 
I can walk, no thanks to you!” Then he listed sideways, almost hitting 
the floor before they hoisted him up again and made their way back 
through the lobby. Coriolanus babbled a long string of profanities, 
which made no impression, and hung in their grip like deadweight 
until they dropped him, unceremoniously, just outside the arena. After 
a minute they deposited Sejanus beside him. They both lay panting on 
the tiles that graced the front of the arena. 

“Tm so sorry, Coryo,” said Sejanus. “I’m so sorry.” 

Coryo was a nickname for old friends. For family. For people 
Coriolanus loved. And this was the moment Sejanus decided to try it 
out? If he’d had the energy, Coriolanus would have reached over and 
strangled him. 

No one paid them any attention. Ma had vanished. Dr. Gaul and 
Dean Highbottom debated audio levels as they watched the feeds in 


the van. The Peacekeepers stood in loose clumps, waiting for 


instructions. Five minutes passed before an ambulance drove up and 
popped open its back doors. The boys were loaded in without so much 
as a glance from the authorities. 

The medic gave Coriolanus a pad to hold against his arm wound 
while she dealt with the more pressing issue of Sejanus’s calf, which 
was producing quite a bit of blood. Coriolanus dreaded returning to 
the hospital and that untrustworthy Dr. Wane, until he saw through 
the small pane of glass that they’d arrived at the Citadel, which 
seemed twice as scary. Unloaded onto gurneys, they were swiftly 
transported deep down to the lab where Clemensia had been attacked, 
leaving Coriolanus to wonder just what modifications they had in 
store for him. 

Accidents must’ve been frequent in the lab, as a small medical 
clinic awaited them. It had lacked the sophistication for Clemensia’s 
resurrection yet seemed adequate to patch up the boys. A white 
curtain divided their two hospital beds, but Coriolanus could hear 
Sejanus giving one-word answers to the doctors’ inquiries. He gave 
little more himself as they stitched his arm and cleaned his raw face. 
His head ached, but he didn’t dare tell them about the rebound of his 
concussion for fear he’d end up being admitted to the hospital for an 
indefinite stay. All he wanted was to get away from these people. 
Despite his protests, they stuck an IV in his arm to rehydrate him and 
deliver some cocktail of drugs, and he lay rigid on the bed, willing 
himself not to flee. Although he’d done Dr. Gaul’s bidding, although 


he’d succeeded, he felt more vulnerable than ever. And here he lay, 


wounded and trapped, hidden away in her lair. 

The pain eased in his arm, but he did not feel the velvet curtain of 
morphling draw around him. Some alternative drug must have been 
administered, because, if anything, his mind felt a heightened 
sharpness, and he noticed everything, from the weave of the bedsheet, 
to the tug of the tape on his raw skin, to the bitter taste the metal cup 
of water left on his tongue. Peacekeeper boots approached and 
withdrew, taking a limping Sejanus with them. Deep in the lab, a 
round of squeals heralded some creature’s feeding time, and the faint 
scent of fish reached him. After that, a relative hush fell over the place 
for a long time. He considered trying to slip away but knew in his 
heart he was expected to wait. To wait for the soft slipper tread that 
inevitably made its way to his cubicle. 

When Dr. Gaul pulled back the curtain, the twilight of the 
nocturnal lab gave Coriolanus the strange impression that she stood 
on the edge of a cliff, that if he were to give her even the smallest 
shove, she would topple backward into some great chasm, never to be 
heard from again. If only, he thought. If only. Instead she moved 
forward and placed two fingers on his wrist, checking his pulse. He 
flinched at the feel of her cool, papery fingers. 

“I started out as a medical doctor, you know,” she said. 
“Obstetrics.” 

How awful, Coriolanus thought. To have you be the first person in the 
world a baby sees. 


“Wasn’t really for me,” said Dr. Gaul. “Parents always want 


reassurances you can’t give. About the futures their children face. 
How could I possibly know what they’d encounter? Like you, tonight. 
Who would’ve imagined Crassus Snow’s darling baby boy fighting for 
his life in the Capitol Arena? Not him, for one.” 

Coriolanus didn’t know how to respond. He could barely 
remember his father, let alone divine his imaginings. 

“What was it like? In the arena?” asked Dr. Gaul. 

“Terrifying,” said Coriolanus flatly. 

“Tt’s designed to be.” She checked his pupils, shining a light into 
each of his eyes. “What about the tributes?” 

The light hurt his head. “What about them?” 

Dr. Gaul moved on to his stitches. “What did you think of them, 
now that their chains have been removed? Now that they’ve tried to 
kill you? Because it was of no benefit to them, your death. You’re not 
the competition.” 

It was true. They’d been close enough to recognize him. But they’d 
hunted down him and Sejanus — Sejanus, who’d treated the tributes 
so well, fed them, defended them, given them last rites! — even 
though they could have used that opportunity to kill one another. 

“I think I underestimated how much they hate us,” said 
Coriolanus. 

“And when you realized that, what was your response?” she asked. 

He thought back to Bobbin, to the escape, to the tributes’ bloodlust 
even after he’d cleared the bars. “I wanted them dead. I wanted every 


one of them dead.” 


Dr. Gaul nodded. “Well, mission accomplished with that little one 
from Eight. You beat him to a pulp. Have to make up some story for 
that buffoon Flickerman to tell in the morning. But what a wonderful 
opportunity for you. Transformative.” 

“Was it?” Coriolanus remembered the sickening thuds of his board 
against Bobbin. So he had what? Murdered the boy? No, not that. It 
was an open-and-shut case of self-defense. But what, then? He had 
killed him, certainly. There would never be any erasing that. No 
regaining that innocence. He had taken human life. 

“Wasn’t it? More than I could’ve hoped. I needed you to get 
Sejanus out of the arena, of course, but I wanted you to taste that as 
well,” she said. 

“Even if it killed me?” asked Coriolanus. 

“Without the threat of death, it wouldn’t have been much of a 
lesson,” said Dr. Gaul. “What happened in the arena? That’s humanity 
undressed. The tributes. And you, too. How quickly civilization 
disappears. All your fine manners, education, family background, 
everything you pride yourself on, stripped away in the blink of an eye, 
revealing everything you actually are. A boy with a club who beats 
another boy to death. That’s mankind in its natural state.” 

The idea, laid out as such, shocked him, but he attempted a laugh. 
“Are we really as bad as all that?” 

“T would say yes, absolutely. But it’s a matter of personal opinion.” 
Dr. Gaul pulled a roll of gauze from the pocket of her lab coat. “What 


do you think?” 


“I think I wouldn’t have beaten anyone to death if you hadn’t 
stuck me in that arena!” he retorted. 

“You can blame it on the circumstances, the environment, but you 
made the choices you made, no one else. It’s a lot to take in all at 
once, but it’s essential that you make an effort to answer that 
question. Who are human beings? Because who we are determines the 
type of governing we need. Later on, I hope you can reflect and be 
honest with yourself about what you learned tonight.” Dr. Gaul began 
to wrap his wound in gauze. “And a few stitches in your arm is a 
cheap price to pay for it.” 

Coriolanus felt nauseous at her words but even more enraged that 
she had forced him to kill for the sake of her lesson. Something that 
significant should have been his decision, not hers. No one’s but his. 
“So, if Pm a vicious animal, then who are you? You’re the teacher 
who sent her student to beat another boy to death!” 

“Oh, yes. That role has fallen to me.” She neatly finished the 
bandage off. “You know, Dean Highbottom and I read your essay 
through. What you liked about the war. A lot of fluff. Drivel, really. 
Until that bit in the end. The part about control. For your next 
assignment, I’d like you to elaborate on that. The value of control. On 
what happens without it. Take your time with it. But it might be a 
nice addition to your prize application.” 

Coriolanus knew what happened without control. He’d seen it 
recently, at the zoo when Arachne died, in the arena when the bombs 


went off, and then again tonight. “Chaos happens. What else is there 


to say?” 

“Oh, a good deal, I think. Start with that. Chaos. No control, no 
law, no government at all. Like being in the arena. Where do we go 
from there? What sort of agreement is necessary if we’re to live in 
peace? What sort of social contract is required for survival?” She 
removed the drip from his arm. “We’ll need you back in a couple of 
days to check those stitches. Until then, I would keep the night’s 
events to yourself. Better get home and catch a few hours of sleep. 
Remarkably, your tribute still needs you.” 

After she left, Coriolanus slowly pulled on his sliced, torn, bloody 
shirt and fastened the buttons. He wandered until he found the 
elevator to street level, and the disinterested guards waved him out. 
The trolleys ended at midnight, and the Capitol clock showed two, so 
he pointed his filthy shoes toward home. 

The Plinths’ luxurious car slid up beside him, and the window 
lowered to reveal the Avox, who stepped out and opened the back 
door for him. Coriolanus guessed he’d already taken Sejanus home, 
and Ma had sent him back. Since the car was empty of Plinths, he got 
in. One last ride, then he wanted nothing to do with that family ever 
again. When the driver let him out at his apartment, Coriolanus was 
presented with a large paper bag. Before he could object, the car 
pulled away. 

Upstairs, he peeked in to see Tigris waiting by the tea table, 
wrapped in a ratty fur coat that had been her mother’s. It was her 


security blanket, much as the rose powder compact had been his 


before he revamped it as a weapon. He grabbed a school jacket from 
the coatrack and pulled it over his damaged shirt before he went in to 
see her. 

Coriolanus tried to make light of the dreadful night. “Surely, it’s 
not so bad you need the coat?” 

Her fingers dug into the fur. “You tell me.” 

“T will. Every bit of it. But in the morning, okay?” he said. 

“Okay.” When she reached up to hug him good night, her hand 
felt the bulge of the bandage on his arm. Before he could stop her, she 
pulled back the jacket and saw the blood. She bit her lip. “Oh, Coryo. 
They made you go into the arena, didn’t they?” 

He hugged her. “Not that bad, really. I’m here. Got Sejanus out, 
too.” 

“Not that bad? It’s horrific to think of you in there. To think of 
anyone in there!” she cried. “Poor Lucy Gray.” 

Lucy Gray. Now that he’d been in the arena himself, her 
circumstances seemed even more dire than before. The thought of her 
huddled somewhere in the cold blackness of the arena, too petrified to 
close her eyes, made him ache. For the first time, he felt glad he’d 
killed Bobbin. At least he’d saved her from that animal. “It’s going to 
be okay, Tigris. But you have to let me get some rest. You need to 
sleep, too.” 

She nodded, but he knew she’d be lucky to snatch an hour or two. 
He handed her the bag. “Courtesy of Ma Plinth. Breakfast, by the 


smell of it. See you then?” 


Not bothering to bathe, he collapsed into a comatose sleep until 
the sound of the Grandma’am singing the anthem woke him. Time to 
be getting up anyway. Aching head to toe, he teetered to the shower, 
removed the gauze from his arm, and let the hot water scream over 
his scraped flesh. He had a tube of ointment from his time in the 
hospital and, although unsure of its use, dabbed it on his raw face and 
chin. The stitches on his arm snagged on his clean shirt, but no new 
bleeding appeared. He’d wear his jacket today just in case. Throwing 
a toothbrush and fresh uniform in his book bag, he took one last look 
in the mirror and sighed. Bicycle accident, he thought. That’s the story. 
Not that I’ve had a working bicycle in years. Well, now he had an excuse 
for its broken condition. 

Once he was presentable, the first thing he did was check the 
television to make sure no harm had come to Lucy Gray. But the 
camera hadn’t shifted, and the only tribute visible in the early 
morning light was Lamina on her beam. Avoiding the Grandma’am, 
he came into the kitchen, where Tigris was warming up the leftover 
jasmine tea. 

“Running late,” he said. “I better get going.” 

“Take this for breakfast.” She put a packet in his hands and placed 
a pair of tokens in his pocket. “And take the trolley today.” 

Needing to conserve energy, he did as he was told, riding the 
trolley and eating two loaded egg-and-sausage rolls Mrs. Plinth had 
sent over. His only regret about ditching the Plinths would be the loss 


of her cooking. 


The main student body had been told to report at a quarter to 
eight, so the early birds consisted of the active mentors and a few 
Avoxes tidying the hall. Coriolanus couldn’t help throwing a guilty 
look at Juno Phipps, who sat discussing her strategy with Domitia 
when she could have slept in. He didn’t much like her — she was 
always throwing her family lineage in his face, as if his wasn’t as 
good — but last night hadn’t been fair to her either. He wondered 
how they would reveal Bobbin’s death and how he would feel when 
they did. Besides queasy. 

The only thing being served at Heavensbee Hall was tea, which 
brought grumblings from Festus. “If we have to be here early, you’d 
think they could at least feed us. What happened to your face?” 

“Bike accident,” Coriolanus said, loud enough for everyone to 
hear. He tossed the bag with the last roll to Festus, happy to be able 
to offer food for a change. He owed the Creeds more meals than he 
cared to remember. 

“Thanks. This looks great,” said Festus, digging in immediately. 

Lysistrata recommended a cream to prevent infection, and they 
went ahead and took their seats as their schoolmates began to arrive. 

Although the sun had been up for a few hours, nothing much 
appeared changed on the screen except the disappearance of Marcus’s 
body. “I guess they removed it,” said Pup. But Coriolanus thought it 
might still be by the barricade where he and Sejanus had abandoned 
it last night, just out of range of the shot. 


At the stroke of eight, they all rose for the anthem, which his 


classmates finally seemed to be getting a handle on, and then Lucky 
Flickerman appeared, welcoming them to day two of the Hunger 
Games. “While you were sleeping, something pretty important 
happened. Let’s take a look, shall we?” They cut back to the wide shot 
of the arena, and then slowly panned the camera round to the 
barricade, zooming in. As Coriolanus had suspected, Marcus’s body 
lay where he and Sejanus had dropped it. A few feet away, Bobbin’s 
battered form slumped against a chunk of concrete. It looked much, 
much worse than he’d imagined. The bloody limbs, the dislodged eye, 
the face so swollen it was unrecognizable. Had he really done that to 
another boy? And such a young boy, too, for in death Bobbin looked 
tinier than ever. Lost in that dark web of terror, it seemed he had. 
Perspiration beaded Coriolanus’s forehead, and he wanted to leave the 
hall, the building, the entire event behind. But, of course, that wasn’t 
an option. Who was he — Sejanus? 

After a good long look at the bodies, the show cut back to Lucky 
as he pondered who might have done the deed. Then his mood 
changed abruptly. “One thing we do know is that we’ve got something 
to celebrate!” Confetti fell from the ceiling, and Lucky blew madly 
away on a plastic horn. “Because we’ve just hit the halfway mark! 
That’s right, twelve tributes down, and only twelve to go!” A string of 
brightly colored handkerchiefs shot out of his hand. He swung it 
around his head, dancing and cheering, “Whoowee!” When he finally 
wound down, he adopted a sad expression. “But that also means we’ve 


got to say our farewells to Miss Juno Phipps. Lepidus?” 


Lepidus had already positioned himself at the end of the 
unsuspecting Juno’s aisle, and she had no choice but to join him and 
work through her disappointment on camera. Given a little notice, 
Coriolanus imagined she’d have comported herself more graciously, 
but as it was, she came off as sour and suspicious, questioning the 
recent developments as she flashed a leather binder inlaid with the 
Phipps family crest. “Something seems fishy to me,” she told Lepidus. 
“I mean, what’s he doing over there with Marcus’s body? Who moved 
it? And how did Bobbin end up dead? I can’t even imagine a likely 
scenario. I feel like there might have been foul play!” 

The reporter sounded genuinely puzzled. “What would qualify as 
foul play, exactly? I mean, in the arena?” 

“Well, I don’t know exactly,” steamed Juno, “but I, for one, would 
really like to see a replay of last night’s events!” 

Good luck with that, Juno, thought Coriolanus. Then he realized it 
did exist. In the back of the van, Dr. Gaul and Dean Highbottom had 
been watching both versions, the real feed and the one they’d 
darkened to obscure his mission. Even the regular one would be hard 
to make out. Still, he didn’t like it, the idea that somewhere there was 
a record, however shadowy, of him killing Bobbin. If it were ever to 
get out... well, he didn’t know what. But it made him uneasy. 

Lepidus didn’t dally with Juno, a sore loser who lacked Felix’s 
grace in defeat, and she was directed back to her seat with a consoling 
pat on the back. 


Still sparkly with confetti, Lucky seemed oblivious to her pain. He 


leaned in toward the camera with barely contained glee. “And now, 
what do you suppose? We’ve got an extra-big surprise — especially if 
yow’re one of the twelve remaining mentors!” 

Coriolanus only had a moment to exchange questioning looks with 
his friends before Lucky bounded across the studio to reveal Sejanus 
sitting side by side with his father, Strabo Plinth, whose stern 
expression seemed carved from the very granite of his home district. 
Lucky took the host chair and patted Sejanus on the leg. “Sejanus, Pm 
sorry we didn’t get a moment with you yesterday to let you comment 
on the demise of your tribute, Marcus.” Sejanus just stared at Lucky 
uncomprehendingly. Lucky seemed to notice the abrasions on his face 
for the first time. “What’s going on here? You look like you’ve been 
mixing it up yourself.” 

“I fell off my bike,” Sejanus rasped, and Coriolanus winced 
slightly. Two biking mishaps in the same twelve-hour period seemed 
more than coincidental. 

“Ouch. Well, I guess you have some pretty big news to share with 
us!” Lucky said with an encouraging nod. 

Sejanus lowered his eyes for a moment, and while neither father 
nor son acknowledged each other, a battle seemed to be occurring. 

“Yes,” Sejanus finally began. “We, the Plinth family, would like to 
announce that we will be giving a prize for a full ride to the 
University to the mentor whose tribute wins the Hunger Games.” 

Pup let out a whoop, and the other mentors grinned at one 


another. Coriolanus knew most of them didn’t need the money as 


badly as he did, if at all, but it would be a feather in anyone’s cap. 

“Sensational!” said Lucky. “What a thrill those twelve remaining 
mentors must be experiencing right now. Was this your idea, Strabo? 
To create the Plinth Prize?” 

“My son’s, actually,” said Strabo, curving the edges of his lips up 
in what Coriolanus thought might be an attempt at a smile. 

“Well, what a generous and appropriate gesture, especially given 
Sejanus’s defeat. You may not have won the Games, but you’ve 
certainly taken home the prize for good sportsmanship. I think I speak 
for the Capitol when I say many thanks!” Lucky beamed at the pair, 
but as nothing else was forthcoming, he made a sweeping gesture 
with his arm. “All right, then, back to the arena!” 

Coriolanus’s mind reeled with the new development. Sejanus had 
been right about his father’s hasty attempt to bury his son’s 
outrageous behavior in cash. Not that it didn’t merit damage control. 
He hadn’t heard much reaction from the others in Heavensbee Hall 
about the outburst with the chair, but he expected stories were going 
around. A prize for the victor’s mentor seemed a small price to pay, 
really. What would Plinth offer to prevent word of Sejanus’s trip into 
the arena from going public? Could he be planning to buy 
Coriolanus’s silence? 

Never mind, never mind that, Coriolanus told himself. The bigger 
news was the possibility of winning the Plinth Prize. It was 
independent of the Academy, so Dean Highbottom wouldn’t have a 


say in it. Even Dr. Gaul would not. A full ride that would free him 


from their power and lift this awful anxiety about the future from his 
shoulders! Already high, the stakes of these Games shot into the 
stratosphere. Focus, he told himself, drawing slow, deep breaths. Focus 
on helping Lucy Gray. 

What was there to do, though, until she showed her face? As the 
morning passed, it seemed few of the tributes were tempted to do so. 
Coral and Mizzen roamed around together for a bit, collecting food 
and water from Festus and Persephone, their mentors. They’d been 
spending time together, trying to come up with a joint strategy for 
their tributes, and Coriolanus could see that Festus was falling for her. 
Did you tell your best friend his crush was a cannibal? Never a rule 
book when you needed one. 

When they returned to the dais after lunch they found the mentor 
seats had been reduced to twelve, leaving only enough space for those 
with tributes still in the Games. 

“The Gamemakers requested it,” Satyria told the final dozen. “It 
makes it easier for the audience to keep track of who’s still a 
contender. We’re to keep removing seats as your tributes are killed.” 

“Like musical chairs,” said Domitia with a pleased look. 

“But with people dying,” said Lysistrata. 

The decision to bump the losers from the dais made Livia even 
more bitter, if that was possible, and Coriolanus was glad to see her 
relegated to the regular audience section, where he wouldn’t have to 
hear her snarky comments. On the other hand, it made it harder to 


put distance between himself and Clemensia, who seemed to spend all 


her free time glaring at him. He positioned himself in the last row, 
bolstered by Festus and Lysistrata, and tried to look engaged. 

As the afternoon unrolled, his head got heavier and heavier, until 
Lysistrata had to nudge him twice to keep him awake. Perhaps it was 
fortunate the day required so little of him, given that the night had 
almost killed him. There were few tribute sightings, and Lucy Gray 
stayed completely hidden. 

Not until the late afternoon did the Hunger Games finally present 
the kind of action that people expected. The girl tribute from District 
5, a rickety little thing who had been one of the unwashed herd to 
Coriolanus, made her way out onto the bleachers at the far end of the 
arena. Failing to find her name, Lucky just managed to connect her 
with her equally forgettable mentor, Iphigenia Moss, whose father 
oversaw the Agriculture Department, and thus the flow of food 
around Panem. Contrary to expectations, Iphigenia always seemed on 
the verge of mal-nutrition, often giving her school lunch to her 
classmates and even blacking out on occasion. Clemensia had once 
told Coriolanus it was the only revenge she could take on her father, 
but refused to give any more details. 

True to form, Iphigenia began to unload every bit of food she 
could on her tribute, but even as the drones made the long trek across 
the arena, Mizzen, Coral, and Tanner, who appeared to have formed 
some sort of pack after the previous night’s adventure, materialized 
from the tunnels and began their hunt. After a brief chase along the 


bleachers, the trio surrounded the girl, and Coral killed her with a 


trident to the throat. 

“Well, that’s that,” said Lucky, still unable to locate the tribute’s 
name. “What can her mentor tell us, Lepidus?” 

Iphigenia had already sought out Lepidus. “Her name was Sol, or 
maybe Sal. She had a funny accent. Not much more to tell.” 

Lepidus seemed inclined to agree. “Nice job getting her to the 
second half, Albina!” 

“Iphigenia,” said Iphigenia over her shoulder as she walked off the 
dais. 

“That’s right!” said Lepidus. “And this means there’s only eleven 
tributes left!” 

Which means ten between me and that prize, thought Coriolanus as 
he watched an Avox remove Iphigenia’s chair. He wished he could get 
food and water to Lucy Gray. What would happen if he sent it in 
without knowing her location? On-screen, the pack collected Sol’s, or 
Sal’s, food and moved back toward the tunnels, probably to get some 
rest before the night came. Should he risk it now? 

He discussed it in whispers with Lysistrata, who felt that it might 
be worth a try if they sent in drones together. “We don’t want them 
getting too weak and dehydrated. I don’t think Jessup’s gotten 
anything down in days. Let’s wait and see if they try and contact us. 
Let’s give them until the supper break.” 

But Lucy Gray made an entrance just as the student body was 
being released to go home. She darted out of a tunnel, running at full 


pitch, her hair loosening from her braids and flying free behind her. 


“Where’s Jessup?” said Lysistrata with a frown. “Why aren’t they 
together?” 

Before Coriolanus could venture a guess, Jessup staggered out of 
the same tunnel Lucy Gray had fled from. At first, Coriolanus thought 
he had been wounded, possibly while defending Lucy Gray. But then, 
what accounted for her flight? Were other tributes in pursuit? As the 
camera moved in on Jessup, it became apparent that he was ill, not 
hurt. Stiff-limbed and feverish with excitement, he swiped at the sun a 
few times before crouching down and springing almost immediately 
back to his feet for his first close-up. 

Coriolanus wondered if Lucy Gray had found a way to poison him, 
but that didn’t make sense. Jessup was too valuable as a protector, 
especially with the pack that had formed last night running around. 
What, then, ailed him? 

Any number of things could’ve sickened him, any range of 
maladies been suspected, if it hadn’t been for the telltale foam that 


began to bubble over his lips. 


< 


“He’s rabid,” Lysistrata said softly. 

Rabies had made a comeback in the Capitol during the war. With 
doctors needed in the field, and facilities and supply lines 
compromised by the bombings, medical treatment had become 
sketchy for humans, like Coriolanus’s mother, and almost nonexistent 
for the pampered Capitol pets. Vaccinating your cat wasn’t on the list 
of priorities when you couldn’t scrape up enough money for bread. 
How it began remained a matter of debate — an infected coyote from 
the mountains? A nocturnal encounter with a bat? — but the dogs 
spread it. Most of them were starving, abandoned casualties of the 
war themselves. From dog to dog, and then to people. The virulent 
strain developed with unprecedented speed, killing over a dozen 
Capitol citizens before a vaccination program brought it under 
control. 

Coriolanus remembered the posters alerting people to the warning 


signs in animals and humans alike, adding just one more potential 


threat to his world. He thought of Jessup with his handkerchief 
pressed against his neck. “The rat bite?” 

“Not a rat,” said Lysistrata, shock and sadness on her face. “Rats 
almost never spread rabies. Probably one of those mangy raccoons.” 

“Lucy Gray said he mentioned fur, so Pd assumed...” He trailed 
off. Not that it mattered what had bitten Jessup; it was a death 
sentence any way you sliced it. He must have been infected about two 
weeks ago. “It was fast, wasn’t it?” 

“Very fast. Because he was bit in the neck. The quicker it gets to 
the brain, the quicker you die,” Lysistrata explained. “And, of course, 
he’s half-starved and weak.” 

If she said so, it was probably true. This was just the sort of thing 
he imagined the Vickers family discussing over dinner, in their calm, 
clinical manner. 

“Poor Jessup,” said Lysistrata. “Even his death has to be horrible.” 

The recognition of Jessup’s illness put the audience on edge, 
setting off a wave of comments thick with fear and revulsion. 

“Rabies! How did he get that?” 

“Brought it from the districts, I’ll bet.” 

“Great, now he’ll infect the whole city!” 

All the students dropped back into their seats, not wanting to miss 
anything, dredging up childhood memories of the disease. 

Coriolanus stayed silent in solidarity with Lysistrata, but his 
concern grew as Jessup zigzagged across the arena in Lucy Gray’s 


direction. No telling what was going on in his mind. Under normal 


circumstances, Coriolanus was certain he’d protect her, but he’d 
clearly lost his reason if she’d run for her life. 

The cameras tracked Lucy Gray as she sprinted across the arena 
and began to scramble up the broken wall into the stands holding the 
main press box. Positioned midway in the arena, it occupied several 
rows and had somehow been spared in the bombing. She stopped a 
moment, panting, while she considered Jessup’s erratic pursuit, then 
she made for the debris of a nearby concession stand. The skeleton of 
the frame remained, but the center had been blasted into bits and the 
roof had been flung thirty feet away. Strewn with bricks and boards, 
the area presented a sort of obstacle course that she traversed until 
she planted herself at the top of the mess. 

The Gamemakers took advantage of her stillness and zoomed in 
for a close-up. Coriolanus took one look at her cracked lips and 
reached for his communicuff. She appeared to have had no access to 
water since she’d been left in the arena, and that had been a day and 
a half ago. He punched in the order for a bottle of water. The 
promptness of the drone delivery was improving with each request. 
Even if she had to keep running, they would be able to get the water 
to her if she stayed in the open. If she could escape Jessup, Coriolanus 
would load her up with both food and drink, for her own use and to 
lace with the rat poison. But that seemed like a long-term plan at the 
moment. 

Jessup had made his way across the arena and seemed confused by 


Lucy Gray’s rejection. He began to climb after her into the stands, but 


he had trouble keeping his balance. As he entered the field of debris, 
his coordination diminished further, and twice he fell with great 
force, opening gashes on his knee and temple. After the second 
wound, which generated a fair amount of blood, he sat, somewhat 
stunned, on a step, reaching out to her. His mouth moved while the 
foam began dripping from his chin. 

Lucy Gray remained motionless, watching Jessup with a pained 
expression. They created a strange tableau: rabid boy, trapped girl, 
bombed-out building. It suggested a tale that could only end in 
tragedy. Star-crossed lovers meeting their fate. A revenge story turned 
in on itself. A war saga that took no prisoners. 

Please die, Coriolanus thought. What eventually killed you when 
you had rabies? You couldn’t breathe, or maybe your heart stopped? 
Whatever it was, the sooner it happened to Jessup, the better it was 
for everyone involved. 

A drone carrying a bottle of water flew into the arena, and Lucy 
Gray lifted her face to track its wobbly progress. Her tongue flicked 
across her lips as if in anticipation. However, as it passed over 
Jessup’s head, something registered and a shudder racked his body. 
He swung at it with a board, and the drone crashed into the stands. 
The water pooling out of the cracked bottle sent him into a state of 
heightened agitation. He backed away, tripping over the seats, and 
then made straight for Lucy Gray. She, in turn, began to climb even 
higher. 


Coriolanus panicked. While the strategy of putting the wreckage 


between herself and Jessup had some merit, she was in danger of 
being cut off from the field. The virus may have compromised Jessup’s 
movement, but it also loaned a manic speed to his powerful body, and 
nothing distracted him from Lucy Gray. Except that moment with the 
water, he thought. The water. A word surfaced in his brain. A word 
from the poster that had papered the Capitol for a time. Hydrophobia. 
A fear of water. The inability to swallow made rabies victims go wild 
at the sight of it. 

His fingers began to work his communicuff, to order bottles of 
water. Perhaps enough of them would frighten Jessup away. He 
would drain his bank if he had to. 

Lysistrata placed her hand on his, stopping him. “No, let me. He’s 
my tribute, after all.” She began to order bottle after bottle. Sending 
in the water to drive Jessup over the brink. Her face registered little 
emotion, but a single tear slid down her cheek, just kissing the edge of 
her mouth before she brushed it away. 

“Lyssie ...” He hadn’t called her that since they were tiny. “You 
don’t have to.” 

“If Jessup can’t win, I want Lucy Gray to. That’s what he’d want. 
And she can’t win if he kills her,” she said. “Which might happen 
anyway.” 

On-screen, Coriolanus could see that Lucy Gray had indeed 
worked herself into a tough spot. To her left stood the high back wall 
of the arena, to her right the thick glass side of the press box. As 


Jessup continued his pursuit, she made several attempts to escape 


him, but he kept correcting his course to block her. When he came 
within twenty feet, she began to talk to him, putting her hand out in a 
soothing manner. It stopped him, but only momentarily, and he made 
for her again. 

Far across the arena, the first bottle of Lysistrata’s water, or 
perhaps the replacement for the one that had crashed, began its flight 
toward the tributes. This machine seemed steadier and truer in course, 
as did the small fleet that followed it. The moment Lucy Gray spied 
the drones she stopped her retreat. Coriolanus saw her hand pat the 
ruffles of her skirt over the pocket with the silver compact, and he 
took it as a sign that she had grasped the significance of the water. 
She pointed over at the drones, beginning to shout, and succeeded in 
getting Jessup to turn his head. 

Jessup froze, and his eyes bulged with fear. As the drones closed in 
on him, he pawed at them but failed to connect. When they started 
releasing the bottles of water, he lost all control. Explosive devices 
could not have elicited a stronger response, and the impact of the 
bottles smacking into the seats whipped him into a frenzy. The 
contents of one splattered his hand, and he recoiled as if it were acid. 
He gained the aisle and bounded down toward the field, but another 
dozen drones arrived and bombarded him. Since they were directed to 
deliver right to the tribute, there was no escaping them. As he flew 
down toward the front-row seats his foot caught, and he tripped 
forward, hurtling over the arena wall and onto the field. 


The sound of snapping bones that accompanied his landing 


surprised the audience, as Jessup had landed in a rare pocket of the 
arena with good audio. He lay on his back, motionless except for the 
heaving in his chest. The remaining bottles rained down on him while 
his lips curled back and his eyes stared unblinkingly at the bright sun 
glinting off the water. 

Lucy Gray darted down the steps and hung over the railing. 
“Jessup!” The most he could do was shift his gaze to her face. 

Coriolanus could barely hear Lysistrata whisper, “Oh, don’t let him 
die alone.” 

Weighing the danger, Lucy Gray took a moment to assess the 
empty arena before she picked her way down the broken wall to his 
side. Coriolanus wanted to groan — she needed to get out of there — 
but he couldn’t do it with Lysistrata beside him. “She won’t,” he 
reassured Lysistrata, thinking of how Lucy Gray had dragged the 
burning beam from his body. “It’s not her style.” 

“Tve got some money left,” said Lysistrata, wiping her eyes. “Pl 
send some food.” 

Jessup followed Lucy Gray with his eyes as she jumped the last 
yard to the field, but he seemed unable to move. Was he paralyzed by 
the fall? She approached him with caution and knelt just out of reach 
of his long arms. Trying to smile, she said, “You go to sleep now, you 
hear, Jessup? You go on, it’s my turn to stand guard.” Something 
seemed to register, her voice or perhaps the repetition of words she’d 
spoken to him over the past two weeks. The rigidity eased in his face, 


and his eyelids fluttered. “That’s right. Let yourself go. How are you 


going to dream if you don’t go to sleep?” Lucy Gray scooted forward 
and laid a hand on his head. “It’s okay. Pll watch over you. I’m right 
here. I’m staying right here.” Jessup stared at her fixedly as the life 
slowly ebbed out of his body and his chest became still. 

Lucy Gray smoothed his bangs and sat back on her heels. She 
heaved a deep sigh, and Coriolanus could feel her exhaustion. She 
shook her head as if to wake herself, then grabbed the nearest bottle 
of water, twisting off the top and draining it in a few gulps. A second 
followed, then a third, before she wiped her mouth with the back of 
her hand. She stood up and examined Jessup, then opened another 
bottle and poured it over his face, washing away the foam and spittle. 
From her pocket she took the white linen napkin that had lined the 
picnic box Coriolanus brought her the final night. She leaned down 
and used the edge to gently shut his eyelids, then shook out the cloth 
and covered his face to hide it from the audience. 

The food parcels from Lysistrata thumping down around her 
seemed to bring Lucy Gray back to the moment, and she quickly 
scooped up the pieces of bread and cheese and stuffed them in her 
pockets. She gathered the bottles of water in her skirt, but pulled up 
short as Reaper appeared at the far end of the arena. Lucy Gray lost 
no time in vanishing into the nearest tunnel with her gifts. Reaper let 
her go but walked over to collect the last few water bottles in the 
fading light, taking note of Jessup but leaving his body alone. 

Coriolanus thought it might bode well for later. If the tributes kept 


making a habit of scavenging the gifts of the fallen, they’d play right 


into the poisoning plan. He didn’t have much time to dwell on it, 
though, as Lepidus arrived to claim Lysistrata. 

“Whoa!” Lepidus said. “That was unexpected! Did you know about 
the rabies?” 

“Of course not. I would’ve alerted the authorities so they could 
test the raccoons in the zoo,” she said. 

“What? You mean he didn’t bring it from the districts?” said 
Lepidus. 

Lysistrata was firm. “No, he was bitten here in the Capitol.” 

“At the zoo?” Lepidus looked worried. “A lot of us have been 
spending time at the zoo. A raccoon was over by my equipment, you 
know, scratching around with those weird little hands and —” 

“You don’t have rabies,” Lysistrata said flatly. 

Lepidus made a clawing motion with his fingers. “It was touching 
my things.” 

“Did you have any questions about Jessup?” she asked. 

“Jessup? No, I never got near him. Oh, um, you meant... Did you 
have any thoughts?” he asked. 

“I do.” She took a deep breath. “What Pd like people to know 
about Jessup is that he was a good person. He threw his body over 
mine to protect me when the bombs started going off in the arena. It 
wasn’t even conscious. He did it reflexively. That’s who he was at 
heart. A protector. I don’t think he would’ve ever won the Games, 
because he’d have died trying to protect Lucy Gray.” 


“Oh, like a dog or something.” Lepidus nodded. “A really good 


2) 


one. 

“No, not like a dog. Like a human being,” said Lysistrata. 

Lepidus eyed her, trying to decipher whether she was joking. 
“Huh. Lucky, any thoughts from headquarters?” 

The camera caught Lucky gnawing on a stubborn hangnail. “Oh, 
what? Hey! Nothing upstairs at present. Let’s peek back at that arena, 
shall we?” 

With the cameras averted, Lysistrata began to collect her things. 

“Don’t go yet. Stay for dinner with us,” Coriolanus said. 

“Oh, no. I just want to go home. But thanks for being there, Coryo. 
You’re a good ally,” she said. 

He hugged her. “You are. I know that wasn’t easy.” 

She sighed. “Well, at least I’m out of it.” 

The other mentors gathered around her, saying good job and 
whatever, before she left the hall without waiting for the rest of the 
student body to head out. That was soon to follow, and within a few 
minutes the ten remaining mentors were all that was left behind. They 
examined one another with new eyes now that the Plinth Prize was in 
play, each hoping not just to have a victor but to be a victor in the 
Games. 

The same thought must have occurred to the Gamemakers, 
because Lucky reclaimed the screen to do a rundown of the remaining 
tributes and their mentors. A split screen showed photos of the 
pairings side by side, accompanied by his voice-over. Some of the 


mentors groaned when they realized their unflattering student ID 


photos had been downloaded, but Coriolanus felt relieved that they 
weren’t highlighting his current scabby face. The tributes, who had no 
official photographs, showed up in random shots taken since the 
reaping. 

The list went chronologically by district, starting with District 3’s 
Urban-Teslee and Io-Circ pairings. “Our tech district tributes have us 
all wondering, what did they do with those drones?” said Lucky. 
Festus and Coral appeared next, followed by Persephone and Mizzen. 
“The District Four tributes are sailing high as we enter the final ten!” 
Lamina on her beam and Pup’s photo brought a cheer from Pup until 
it was replaced by Treech juggling at the zoo and Vipsania. “And 
crowd favorites Lamina and Pliny Harrington are joined by the 
District Seven boy, Treech, and his mentor, Vipsania Sickle! So, 
Districts Three, Four, and Seven all have both their teams intact! Now 
to the solo tributes.” A blurry picture of Wovey crouched down at the 
zoo, coupled with Hilarius with a bad acne outbreak. “Wovey from 
Eight with Hilarius Heavensbee as a guide!” Since they used his 
interview shot, Tanner looked better as he came up side by side with 
Domitia. “The boy from Ten can’t wait to put his slaughterhouse 
techniques to good use!” Then Reaper, standing strong in the arena, 
matched with a flawless-looking Clemensia. “Here’s a tribute you 
might want to rethink! Reaper from Eleven!” Finally, Coriolanus saw 
his own photo — not great, not bad — with a dazzling photo of Lucy 
Gray singing at the interview. “And the award for most popular goes 


to Coriolanus Snow and Lucy Gray from Twelve!” 


Most popular? It was flattering, Coriolanus supposed, but not 
especially intimidating. Never mind, though. Popular had gotten Lucy 
Gray a pile of money. She was alive, watered, fed, and well stocked. 
Hopefully, she could hole up while the others thinned their ranks. 
Losing Jessup as her protector was a blow, but it would be easier for 
her to hide by herself. Coriolanus had promised her she would never 
really be alone in the arena, that he would be with her all the way. 
Was she holding on to that compact now? Thinking of him as he was 
of her? 

Coriolanus updated his mentor sheet, taking no pleasure in 


crossing out Jessup and Lysistrata. 


10th HUNGER GAMES 


MENTOR ASSIGNMENTS 


DISTRICT 1 
Boy (Facet) 


Livia Cardew 


Girl (Velvereen) Palmyra Monty 
DISTRICT 2 

Boy (Marcus) Sejanus Plinth 
Girl (Sabyn) Florus Friend 
DISTRICT 3 

Boy (Circ) Io Jasper 

Girl (Teslee) Urban Canville 
DISTRICT 4 

Boy (Mizzen) Persephone Price 
Girl (Coral) Festus Creed 
DISTRICT 5 

Boy (Hy) Dennis Fling 
Girl (Sol) Iphigenia Moss 
DISTRICT 6 

Boy (Otto) Apollo Ring 

Girl (Ginnee) Diana Ring 
DISTRICT 7 

Boy (Treech) Vipsania Sickle 
Girl (Lamina) Pliny Harrington 


DISTRICT 8 


Boy (Bobbin) Juno Phipps 


Girl (Wovey) Hilarius Heavensbee 
DISTRICT 9 

Boy (Panlo) Gaius Breen 

Girl (Sheaf) Androcles Anderson 
DISTRICT 10 

Boy (Tanner) Domitia Whimsiwick 
Girl (Brandy) Arachne Crane 
DISTRICT 11 

Boy (Reaper) Clemensia Dovecote 
Girl (Dill) Felix Ravinstill 
DISTRICT 12 

Boy (Jessup) Lysistrata Vickers 
Girl (Lucy Gray) Coriolanus Snow 


The field had narrowed considerably, but several of the surviving 
tributes would be tough to beat. Reaper, Tanner, both of those District 
4 tributes ... and who knew what that brainy little pair from District 
3 was up to? 

As the ten mentors gathered for a delicious lamb stew with dried 
plums, Coriolanus missed Lysistrata. She had been his only real ally, 
just as Jessup had been Lucy Gray’s. 

After supper, he sat between Festus and Hilarius, doing his best to 
keep from nodding off. At around nine, with nothing eventful having 
happened since Jessup’s death, they were sent home with orders to be 
there all the earlier the following morning. The walk home loomed, 
but he remembered the second token from Tigris and gratefully 
mounted the trolley, which dropped him a block from his apartment. 

The Grandma’am had gone to bed, but Tigris waited for him in his 
bedroom, again enveloped in her mother’s fur coat. He collapsed on 
the chaise longue at her feet, knowing he owed her an explanation of 
his time in the arena. It wasn’t only fatigue that made him hesitate. 


“I know you want to hear about last night,” he told her, “but I’m 


afraid to tell you. I’m afraid you could get in trouble for knowing it.” 

“It’s okay, Coryo. Your shirt’s told me most of it.” From the floor 
she retrieved the shirt he’d worn in the arena. “Clothes speak to me, 
you know.” She smoothed it out on her lap and began to reconstruct 
the terrors of his night, first lifting the bloodstained slit in the 
material on the sleeve. “Right here. This is where the knife cut you.” 
Her fingers tracked the damage down the fabric. “All these little rips, 
and the way the dirt’s ground in, tell me you slid — or maybe even 
were dragged — which matches up with the scrape on your chin and 
the blood on your collar.” Tigris touched the neckline, then moved on. 
“This other sleeve, the way it’s torn, I’d say you caught it on barbed 
wire. Probably at the barricade. But this blood here, the stuff 
splattered on the cuff . . . I don’t think it’s yours. I think you had to do 
something really awful in there.” 

Coriolanus stared down at the blood and felt the impact of the 
beam on Bobbin’s head. “Tigris...” 

She rubbed her temple. “And I keep wondering how it came to 
this. That my baby cousin, who wouldn’t hurt a fly, has to fight for his 
life in the arena.” 

This was the last conversation in the world he wanted to have 
right now. “I don’t know. I didn’t have any choice.” 

“T know that. Of course I know that.” Tigris put her arms around 
him. “I just hate what they’re doing to you.” 

“Pm okay,” he said. “It won’t last much longer. And even if I don’t 


win, I’m a shoo-in for some sort of prize. Really, I think things are 


about to take a turn for the better.” 

“Right. Yes. I’m sure they are. Snow lands on top,” she agreed. But 
the look on her face spoke otherwise. 

“What is it?” he asked. She shook her head. “Come on, what?” 

“I wasn’t going to tell you until after the Hunger Games...” She 
fell silent. 

“But now you have to,” he said. “Or, I’ll imagine the worst things 
possible. Please, just tell me.” 

“We'll figure something out.” She started to rise. 

“Tigris.” He pulled her back down. “What?” 

Tigris reluctantly reached into her coat pocket, pulled out a letter 
marked with the Capitol stamp, and handed it to him. “The tax bill 
came today.” 

She didn’t have to elaborate. Her expression told him everything. 
With no money for the taxes, and no way to borrow more, the Snows 


were about to lose their home. 


> 


Coriolanus had been in a state of denial about the taxes, but now 
the reality of his family’s displacement hit him like a truck. How 
could he say good-bye to the only home he’d ever known? To his 
mother, to his childhood, to those sweet memories of his life before 
the war? These four walls not only kept his family safe from the 
world, they protected the legend of the Snows’ wealth. He would be 
losing his residence, his history, and his identity in one fell swoop. 

They had six weeks to come up with the money. To scrape 
together the equivalent of Tigris’s income for the whole year. The 
cousins tried to assess what they might still have to sell, but even if 
they sold every stick of furniture and every keepsake, it would only 
cover a few months, at the most. And the tax bills would keep 
showing up, every month, like clockwork. They would need the 
proceeds from selling their possessions, however paltry, to rent a new 
place. Eviction due to tax troubles had to be avoided at all cost; the 
public shame would be too great, too lasting. So move they must. 


“What are we going to do?” Coriolanus asked. 


“Nothing until the Hunger Games are finished. You have to focus 
on them so you can get that Plinth Prize, or at least another one. I'll 
handle this end,” she said firmly. She made him a cup of hot milk 
laced with corn syrup and stroked his throbbing head until he fell 
asleep. He dreamed violent, unsettling things, replaying the events of 


the arena, and awoke to the usual. 


Gem of Panem, 


Mighty city, 


Through the ages, you shine anew. 


Would the Grandma’am still be singing it in their rental in a 
month or two? Or would she be too humiliated to raise her voice 
again? For all his derision of the morning recital, the thought 
saddened him. 

As he dressed, the stitches on his arm pulled, and he remembered 
he was supposed to drop by the Citadel to get them checked. Dark red 
scabs had settled on his scraped face, but the swelling had abated. He 
dabbed some of his mother’s powder on, and while it didn’t really 
cover the scabs, the scent soothed him a bit. 

Their hopeless financial situation made him accept the tokens 
Tigris offered without hesitation. Why bother pinching pennies when 
the dollars had fled long ago? On the trolley, he choked down his nut 
butter on soda crackers and tried not to compare it with Ma Plinth’s 
breakfast rolls. It crossed his mind that, given his rescue of Sejanus, 


the Plinths might provide a loan, or even a payout for his silence, but 


the Grandma’am would never allow that, and the idea of a Snow 
groveling before a Plinth was unthinkable. The Plinth Prize, though, 
was fair game, and Tigris was right. These next few days would 
determine his future. 

At the Academy, the ten mentors drank their tea and readied 
themselves for the cameras. Every day brought them more scrutiny. 
The Gamemakers had sent over a makeup person, who managed to 
tone down Coriolanus’s scabs and give his eyebrows a little shape 
while she was at it. No one seemed in the mood to talk about the 
Games directly, except Hilarius Heavensbee, who could talk of 
nothing else. 

“Its different for me,” said Hilarius. “I checked my list last night. 
Every single one of the tributes left has had food, or at least water, 
since they’ve been in the arena. Except old no-show Wovey. Where is 
she anyway? I mean, how would I know if she just curled up and died 
somewhere in those tunnels? Maybe she’s already dead, and I’m just 
sitting here like a jackass, playing with my communicuff!” 

Coriolanus wanted to tell him to shut up because other people had 
real problems, but instead he maneuvered himself into a seat on the 
end, next to Festus, who was deep in discussion with Persephone. 

Lucky Flickerman opened by recapping the remaining tributes and 
inviting Lepidus to take comments from the mentor pool. Coriolanus 
was called upon first thing to respond to the Jessup scare. He made a 
point of complimenting Lysistrata’s brilliant handling of the rabies 


situation and thanking her for her generosity in the last minutes of 


Jessup’s life. He turned to the section where the fallen mentors sat, 
asked her to stand, and invited the audience to give her a round of 
applause. Not only did they oblige, but at least half stood up, and 
while Lysistrata looked embarrassed, he thought she didn’t really 
mind. Then he added that he hoped to properly thank her by fulfilling 
her prediction that the victor would be a tribute from District 12, 
namely, Lucy Gray. The audience could see for themselves how clever 
his tribute had been. And they shouldn’t forget how she’d stood by 
Jessup until the bitter end. Again, that was behavior you might expect 
of a Capitol girl, but of one from the districts? It was something to 
think about, how much they rewarded character in the Hunger Games 
victor, how much she reflected their values. Something must’ve hit 
home with the audience, because at least a dozen pings sounded from 
his communicuff right off. He held up the cuff for the camera and 
thanked the generous sponsors. 

As if unable to stand that much attention being showered on 
Coriolanus, Pup sat forward and loudly announced that he’d “Better 
get Lamina her breakfast!” and ordered up a storm of food and drink. 
No one else could compete, as she was the only tribute to be seen in 
the arena, so it was just one more way in which Pup was annoying. It 
gratified Coriolanus that no new pinging came from his rival’s cuff. 

Knowing he wouldn’t be called upon again until the others had 
been interviewed, Coriolanus adopted an interested demeanor but 
barely listened to their pitches. The idea of approaching old Strabo 


Plinth for money — not blackmailing him, of course, but giving him 


the opportunity to make a financial gift of thanks — kept nagging at 
him. What if Coriolanus dropped by the Plinths’ to check on Sejanus’s 
health? That had been a bad cut on his leg. Yes, what if he just 
dropped by and then saw what happened? 

Lucky interrupted Io’s thoughts on what Circ might do with the 
drone — “Well, if the light-emitting diodes on the drone aren’t 
broken, he might be able to fashion a flashlight of some sort, which 
would give him a great advantage at night” — to direct the audience’s 
attention to Reaper’s emergence from the barricade. 

Lamina, who’d been collecting water, bread, and cheese from a 
half dozen drones, neatly lined up her provisions along the beam. She 
barely acknowledged Reaper’s entrance, but he walked over to her 
with purpose. He pointed up at the sun and then to her face. For the 
first time, Coriolanus noticed the toll the long days outdoors were 
taking on Lamina’s skin. She’d been badly sunburned, and her nose 
was peeling in response. On close inspection, the tops of her bare feet 
were red as well. Reaper indicated her food. Lamina rubbed her foot 
and seemed to consider whatever his offer might be. They went back 
and forth for a bit, then both nodded in agreement. Reaper jogged 
across the arena and climbed up to the flag of Panem. He pulled out 
his long knife and stabbed through the heavy fabric. 

Loud objections came from the audience in the hall. This disregard 
for the sanctity of the national flag shook them. As Reaper began to 
saw his way through the flag, carving off a piece the size of a small 


blanket, the unease grew. Surely, this should not go unchecked. 


Surely, he should be punished in some way. But given that being in 
the Hunger Games was the ultimate punishment, no one knew what 
form it should take. 

Lepidus hurried over to Clemensia to ask what she made of her 
tribute’s behavior. “Well, it’s a stupid move, isn’t it? Who’s going to 
sponsor him now?” 

“Not that it matters, since you never feed him,” Pup commented. 

“TIl feed him when he does something that merits feeding,” said 
Clemensia. “Anyway, I think you’ve got that covered today.” 

Pup frowned. “I do?” 

Clemensia nodded to the screen as Reaper jogged back to the 
beam. Further negotiation occurred between him and Lamina. Then, 
on what appeared to be the count of three, Reaper tossed up the 
wadded piece of flag as Lamina dropped down a piece of bread. The 
flag didn’t quite make it high enough for her to catch hold of. More 
negotiation ensued. When Reaper finally delivered it after several 
attempts, she rewarded him with a chunk of cheese. 

It wasn’t an official alliance, but the exchange seemed to bond the 
two a bit. While Lamina shook out the flag and draped it over her 
head, Reaper sat against one of the posts and ate his bread and 
cheese. They didn’t speak to each other again, but a relative calm 
came over them, and when the pack appeared at the far end of the 
arena, Lamina pointed them out. Reaper gave her a nod of thanks 
before withdrawing behind the barricade. 


Coral, Mizzen, and Tanner sat in the stands and made eating 


motions. Festus, Persephone, and Domitia all obliged them, and the 
three tributes shared the bread, cheese, and apples dropped by the 
drones. 

Back in the studio, Lucky had brought his pet parrot, Jubilee, to 
the set, and he spent several minutes trying to coax it to say “Hi, 
Handsome!” to Dean Highbottom. The bird, a depressed creature in 
the midst of battling mange, perched wordlessly on Lucky’s wrist as 
the dean folded his hands and waited. “Oh, say it! Come on! ‘Hi, 
Handsome! Hi, Handsome!” 

“T don’t think it wants to, Lucky,” said Dean Highbottom finally. 
“Perhaps it doesn’t find me handsome at all.” 

“What? Ha! Nooo. He’s just shy in front of strangers.” He held out 
the bird. “Would you like to hold him?” 

The dean leaned back. “No.” 

Lucky pulled Jubliee back to his chest and stroked his feathers 
with a fingertip. “So, Dean Highbottom, what do you make of it all?” 

“All... what?” Dean Highbottom asked. 

“All this stuff. All this different stuff happening in the Hunger 
Games.” Lucky waved his hand in the air. “All of it!” 

“Well, what I’m noticing is the new interactivity of the Games,” 
said Dean Highbottom. 

Lucky nodded. “Interactivity. Go on.” 

“Right from the beginning. Even before, actually. When the 
bombing occurred in the arena, it not only took out participants, it 


changed the landscape,” the dean continued. 


“Changed the landscape,” Lucky repeated. 

“Yes. Now we have the barricade. The beam. Access to the tunnels. 
It’s a brand-new arena, and it’s made the tributes behave in a brand- 
new way,” the dean explained. 

“And we have drones!” said Lucky. 

“Exactly right. Now the audience is an active player in the 
Games.” Dean Highbottom inclined his head toward Lucky. “And you 
know what that means.” 

“What?” said Lucky. 

The dean spoke the next words slowly, as if to a small child. “It 
means we're all in the arena together, Lucky.” 

Lucky furrowed his brow. “Huh. I don’t quite get that.” 

Dean Highbottom tapped his temple with his forefinger. “Think it 
over.” 

“Hi, Handsome,” squawked Jubilee despondently. 

“Oh, there we go! I told you, didn’t I?” crowed Lucky. 

“You did,” admitted the dean. “And yet it was still unexpected.” 

Nothing much else happened before lunch. Lucky did the weather 
report district by district, with the added fillip of Jubilee’s company, 
but the bird refused to talk again, so Lucky began speaking for it in a 
high-pitched voice. “How’s the weather look in District Twelve, 
Jubilee?” “They’ve got snow, Lucky.” “Snow in July, Jubilee?” 
“Coriolanus Snow!” 

Coriolanus gave the camera a thumbs-up when they cut for his 


reaction. He could not believe this was his life. 


Lunch disappointed, as the menu consisted of nut butter 
sandwiches, and he’d had nut butter for breakfast. He ate it, because 
he ate anything free, and it was important to keep his strength up. A 
ripple went through the hall indicating something was happening on 
the screen, and he hurried to resume his seat. Maybe Lucy Gray had 
surfaced? 

She had not, but the pack’s morning laziness had given way to 
direction. The three strode across the arena until they were directly 
under Lamina’s beam. She took no notice at first, but Tanner 
smacking a sword blade against one of the poles brought her to 
attention. Lamina sat up and surveyed the pack, and she must have 
sensed a change in the air, because she pulled out her ax and her 
knife and polished them on the flag. 

After a brief huddle, in which the District 4 tributes relinquished 
their tridents to Tanner, the pack split up. Coral and Mizzen each 
went to one of the metal posts that supported the beam, and Tanner 
stood directly under Lamina, holding the pair of tridents. Knives in 
teeth, Coral and Mizzen gave each other a nod and then began to 
climb their respective posts. 

Festus shifted in his seat. “Here we go.” 

“They'll never make it,” said Pup in agitation. 

“They’re trained to work on ships. They climb ropes as part of it,” 
Persephone pointed out. 

“Rigging,” said Festus. 


“Yes, I get it. My father’s a commander, after all,” said Pup. “Rope 


climbing is different. The posts are more like trees.” 

But Pup had been getting on everyone’s nerves, and even the 
mentors without a tribute in the confrontation seemed eager to 
comment. 

“What about masts?” asked Vipsania. 

“Or flagpoles?” Urban chimed in. 

“They won’t make it,” said Pup. 

While the District 4 pair lacked Lamina’s smooth style, they were 
indeed making it, slowly pulling their way higher and higher. Tanner 
directed them, calling on Coral to wait a moment when Mizzen fell 
behind. 

“Look, they’re timing it so they reach the top together,” said Io. 
“They’re making her choose who to fight, then the other one will 
reach the beam.” 

“So she’ll kill one of them and climb down,” said Pup. 

“Where Tanner will be waiting,” Coriolanus reminded him. 

“Well, I know that!” said Pup. “What do you expect me to do? It’s 
not like they have rabies and there’s a simple fix like sending in 
water!” 

“Never would have crossed your mind,” said Festus. 

“Of course, it would’ve,” snapped Pup. “Shut up! All of you!” 

A silence fell, but largely because Coral and Mizzen were nearing 
the top. Lamina’s head went back and forth as she decided who to 
confront. Then she headed for Coral. 


“No, not the girl, the boy!” exclaimed Pup, jumping to his feet. 


“Now she'll have to fight the boy on the beam.” 

“Pd do the same thing. I wouldn’t want to fight that girl up there,” 
said Domitia, and murmurs of agreement came from a few of the 
mentors. 

“No?” Pup reconsidered. “Maybe you're right.” 

Lamina reached the end of the beam and swung the ax down at 
Coral without hesitation, just missing her scalp but shaving off a tuft 
of hair. Coral retreated, lowering herself about a yard, but Lamina 
struck at her a few more times, as if to drive the point home. As 
expected, this gave Mizzen time to mount the beam, but when Tanner 
threw the trident up to him, it peaked about two-thirds of the way up 
and fell back to the ground. Lamina took one last swipe at Coral and 
then moved swiftly for Mizzen. He was no match for her sure- 
footedness on the beam and only managed a few hesitant steps as she 
bore down on him. Tanner did better with his second throw, but the 
trident bounced off the underside of the beam and landed in the dirt. 
Occupied by crouching to try and catch it, Mizzen straightened up just 
as Lamina came in, bringing the flat side of the ax against the outer 
part of his knee. The force of the blow threw them both off balance. 
But while she recovered by straddling the beam, Mizzen fell, losing 
his knife and just barely catching himself with one arm. 

Even the sound system in the arena picked up Coral’s war cry as 
she gained the top. Tanner ran down to her end and managed to hurl 
the trident within range. The easy way Coral snatched the weapon 


from the air drew a few exclamations of admiration from the Capitol 


audience. Lamina gave Mizzen a glance, but his helpless condition 
posed no immediate threat, so she turned and braced herself for 
Coral’s attack. Lamina had better balance, but Coral’s weapon had 
more range. After Lamina managed to block the first few jabs with her 
ax, Coral wove the trident in a twisting move that distracted the eye 
before it plunged into her opponent’s abdomen. Coral released the 
weapon and stepped back, using her knife as a backup, but none was 
needed. Lamina fell off the beam and died on impact. 

“No!” cried Pup, and the word echoed around Heavensbee Hall. 
He stood stock-still for a long moment, then picked up his seat and 
left the mentor section, ignoring Lepidus’s outstretched mic. He 
slammed his chair down next to Livia’s and strode out of the hall. 
Coriolanus thought he was trying not to cry. 

Coral crossed to Mizzen and stood over him for a disconcerting 
beat, in which Coriolanus wondered if she was planning to kick his 
arm free and send him after Lamina. Instead she sat down on the 
beam, locking her legs for support, and helped him to safety. The ax 
had damaged his knee, although it was difficult to gauge to what 
extent. He half slid, half lowered himself down the pole, closely 
followed by Coral, who picked up the unused trident from the ground 
where Tanner had abandoned it. Mizzen leaned back against the pole, 
testing his knee. 

After performing some kind of dance over Lamina’s body, Tanner 
bounded over to them. Mizzen grinned and raised his hands for a 


victory slap. Tanner had just made contact when Coral drove the 


second trident into his back. He fell forward into Mizzen, who, braced 
by the pole, shoved him away. Tanner turned in a circle, one hand 
swatting uselessly behind him as if to dislodge the trident, but the 
barbed tines were buried deep. He fell to his knees, his expression 
more wounded than shocked, and collapsed facedown in the dirt. 
Mizzen finished him with a knife to the neck. He then went back and 
sat against his pole while Coral tore a strip of fabric from Lamina’s 
flag cloth and began to bind his knee. 

At the studio, Lucky’s face stretched into a comedic mask of shock. 
“Did you just see what I saw?” 

Domitia had quietly gathered her things, her lips pressed together 
in disappointment. But when Lepidus pushed the mic at her, she spoke 
in a calm, detached voice. “It’s a surprise. I thought Tanner might win 
this thing. And he probably would have if his allies hadn’t betrayed 
him. I guess that’s the takeaway. Be careful who you trust.” 

“In and out of the arena,” said Lepidus, nodding sagely. 

“Everywhere,” Domitia agreed. “You know, Tanner was a very 
good-natured sort of person. And District Four took advantage of 
that.” She looked sadly at Festus and Persephone, suggesting this 
reflected badly on them, and Lepidus gave a disapproving click of his 
tongue. “It’s one of the many things I’ve learned from being a mentor 
in the Hunger Games. Ill always cherish my experience here, and I 
wish all the remaining mentors the best of luck.” 

“Well said, Domitia. I think you’ve just showed your fellow 


mentors how to be a good loser,” said Lepidus. “Lucky?” 


The cut revealed Lucky trying to lure Jubilee off the chandelier 
with a cracker. “What? Aren’t you going to talk to the other one? 
What’s his name? The commander’s kid?” 

“He declined to comment,” said Lepidus. 

“Well, let’s get back to the show!” called Lucky. 

The show was over for the moment, though. Coral finished 
bandaging Mizzen’s knee and collected their tridents, yanking them 
from her victims’ bodies. Mizzen limped as the pair walked 
unhurriedly across the arena to their preferred tunnel. 

Satyria came over and had the mentors rearrange their chairs into 
two neat rows of four. Io, Urban, Clemensia, and Vipsania in the front. 
Coriolanus, Festus, Persephone, and Hilarius in the back. The musical 
chairs continued. 

Perhaps the indignities of being Lucky’s dummy had become too 
great, because Jubilee refused to come down from the chandelier. 
Lucky leaned heavily on his stringers in Heavensbee Hall and in front 
of the arena, where the crowd had set up cheering sections for the 
various tributes. Team Lucy Gray was well represented by young and 
old, male and female, and even a handful of Avoxes — but they didn’t 
really count, having been brought along to hold signs. 

Coriolanus wished Lucy Gray could see how many people loved 
her. He wished she knew how he advocated for her. He’d become 
more active, pulling Lepidus over during quiet stretches and praising 
Lucy Gray to the skies. As a result, her sponsor gifts had reached a 


new high, and he felt confident he could feed her for a week. There 


was really nothing left to do but watch and wait. 

Treech came out long enough to snag Lamina’s ax and for Vipsania 
to feed him. Teslee retrieved another fallen drone and collected some 
food from Urban. Little else occurred until late afternoon, when 
Reaper wandered out of the barricade, rubbing sleep from his eyes. He 
seemed unable to make sense of the scene before him, the stabbed 
bodies of Tanner and particularly Lamina. After walking around them 
for a time, he lifted Lamina up, carried her over to where Bobbin and 
Marcus lay, and arranged the three in a row on the ground. For a 
while, he paced around the beam, then he dragged Tanner over beside 
Lamina. Over the next hour, he collected first Dill and then Sol, 
adding them to his makeshift morgue. 

Jessup remained the only one left out. Reaper was probably afraid 
of contracting rabies. Once he’d neatly lined up the others, he swatted 
at the flies that had gathered. After pausing a moment in thought, he 
went back and cut off a second piece of the flag, draping it over their 
bodies and causing another wave of outrage in the hall. Reaper shook 
out Lamina’s flag remnant and tied it like a cape around his shoulders. 
The cape seemed to inspire him, and he began to spin slowly, looking 
back over his shoulder to watch it fly out behind him. He ran then, 
spreading his arms out as the flag streamed in the sunlight. Exhausted 
by the day’s activities, he finally climbed into the stands and waited. 

“Oh, for heaven’s sake, feed him, Clemmie!” said Festus. 

“Mind your own business,” said Clemensia. 


“Yow’re heartless,” Festus told her. 


“Pm a good manager. It could be a long Hunger Games.” She gave 
Coriolanus an unpleasant smile. “And it’s not like I’ve abandoned 
him.” 

Coriolanus thought about inviting her to the Citadel for his follow- 
up appointment. He could use some company, and she could visit her 
snakes. 

Five o’clock rolled around with the dismissal of the student body, 
and the eight remaining mentors gathered for beef stew and cake. He 
couldn’t say he missed Domitia, and certainly not Pup, but he missed 
the buffer they had provided between him and the likes of Clemensia, 
Vipsania, and Urban. Even Hilarius, with his woeful tales of being a 
Heavensbee, had become a strain. When Satyria released them at 
around eight o’clock, he headed straight for the door, hoping it wasn’t 
too late to have his arm checked. 

The Citadel guards recognized him, and after they searched his 
book bag, he was allowed to keep it and go down to the lab 
unescorted. He wandered a bit before finding his destination, then sat 
in the clinic for half an hour before a doctor appeared. She checked 
his vitals, examined the stitches, which were doing their job, and told 
him to wait. 

An unusual energy filled the lab. Quick footsteps, raised voices, 
impatient commands. Coriolanus listened hard but he couldn’t make 
out the cause of the activity. He did hear the words arena and Games 
more than once, and wondered about the connection. When Dr. Gaul 


finally appeared, she made only a cursory check of his stitches. 


“Another few days,” she confirmed. “Tell me, Mr. Snow, did you 
know Gaius Breen?” 

“Did I?” asked Coriolanus, picking up on the past tense 
immediately. “I do. I mean, we’re classmates. I know he lost his legs 
in the arena. Is he —” 

“He’s dead. Complications from the bombing,” said Dr. Gaul. 

“Oh, no.” Coriolanus couldn’t process it. Gaius, dead? Gaius 
Breen? He remembered a joke Gaius had recently told him about how 
many rebels it took to tie a shoe. “I never even visited him in the 
hospital. When is the funeral?” 

“That’s being worked out. You must keep it to yourself until we 
make an official announcement,” she warned him. “I’m only telling 
you now so that at least one of you will have something intelligent to 
say to Lepidus. I trust you can manage that.” 

“Yes, of course. That will be strange, announcing it during the 
Games. Like a victory for the rebels,” said Coriolanus. 

“Exactly. But rest assured, there will be repercussions. In fact, it 
was your girl who gave me the idea. If she wins, we should compare 
notes. And I haven’t forgotten you owe me a paper.” She left, pulling 
the curtain closed behind her. 

Free to go, Coriolanus buttoned his shirt up and collected his book 
bag. What was he supposed to write about, again? Something about 
chaos? Control? Contracts? He felt fairly sure it began with a C. When 
he approached the elevator, he found a pair of lab assistants ahead of 


him, trying to maneuver a cart into the car. On the cart sat the large 


tank filled with the snakes that had attacked Clemensia. 

“Did she say to bring the cooler?” asked one of the assistants. 

“Not that I remember,” said the other. “I thought they’d been fed. 
We better check. If we’re wrong, she’ll go ballistic.” She noticed 
Coriolanus. “Sorry, need to back out.” 

“No problem,” he said, and stepped aside so they could wheel the 
tank out. The elevator doors closed, and he could hear the whir of it 
ascending. 

“Oh, sorry, it will be back in a minute,” the second assistant said. 

“No problem,” Coriolanus repeated. But he was beginning to 
suspect a very great problem. He thought of the activity in the lab, 
and the Games being mentioned, and Dr. Gaul promising 
repercussions. “Where are you taking the snakes?” he asked as 
innocently as possible. 

“Oh, just to another lab,” said one, but the assistants exchanged a 
look. “Come on, the cooler takes two.” The pair receded into the lab, 
leaving him alone with the tank. “In fact, it was your girl who gave me 
the idea.” His girl. Lucy Gray. Who’d made an entrance into the 
Hunger Games by dropping a snake down the mayor’s daughter’s 
back. “If she wins, we should compare notes.” Notes about what? How to 
use snakes as weapons? He stared into the undulating reptiles, 
imagining them being let loose in the arena. What would they do? 
Hide? Hunt? Attack? Even if he knew how snakes behaved, which he 
didn’t, he doubted these would conform to any norms, as they were 


genetically designed by Dr. Gaul. 


With a sharp pang, Coriolanus had a vision of Lucy Gray in their 
final meeting, clutching his hand as he promised her they could win. 
But there was no way he could protect her from the creatures in this 
tank, any more than he could protect her from tridents and swords. At 
least she could hide from those. He didn’t know for sure, but he was 
guessing the snakes would head straight for the tunnels. The dark 
would not impair their sense of smell. They would not recognize Lucy 
Gray’s scent, just the way they had not recognized Clemensia’s. Lucy 
Gray would scream and fall to the ground, her lips turning purple, 
then bloodless, while bright pink and blue and yellow pus oozed onto 
her ruffled dress — That was it! The thing the snakes had reminded 
him of the first time he’d seen them. They matched her dress. As if 
they had always been her destiny . . . 

Without knowing quite how, Coriolanus found the hand-kerchief 
in his hand, neatly balled up like a prop in one of Lucky’s magic 
tricks. He moved to the snake tank, his back to the security camera, 
and leaned over, resting his hands on the cover as if fascinated by the 
snakes. From that vantage point, he watched the handkerchief fall 


through the trapdoor and disappear beneath the rainbow of bodies. 


> 


What had he done? What on earth had he done? His heart raced as 
he blindly turned down one street and then another, trying to make 
sense of his actions. He couldn’t think clearly but had the dreadful 
feeling that he’d crossed some line that could not be uncrossed. 

The avenue felt full of eyes. There were few pedestrians or drivers 
out, but even their notice felt glaring. Coriolanus ducked into a park 
and hid in the shadows, on a bench surrounded by bushes. He forced 
himself to control his breathing, counting four in and four out until 
his blood stopped pounding in his ears. Then he tried to think 
rationally. 

All right, so he’d dropped the handkerchief with Lucy Gray’s 
scent — the one from the outside pocket of his book bag — into the 
snake tank. He’d done it so they would not bite her as they had 
Clemensia. So they would not kill her. Because he cared about her. 
Because he cared about her? Or because he wanted her to win the 
Hunger Games so that he could secure the Plinth Prize? If it was the 


latter, he had cheated to win, and that was that. 


Hold on. You didn’t know if those snakes were going to the arena, he 
thought. The assistants had, in fact, told him otherwise. There was no 
history of such a thing ever occurring. Perhaps it had just been a 
temporary flight of madness. And even if the snakes did end up in the 
arena, Lucy Gray might never encounter them. It was a huge place, 
and he didn’t think snakes just went around attacking people right 
and left. You had to step on them or something. And even if she did 
run into a snake, and it didn’t bite her, how would anyone trace that 
back to him? It required too much high-security knowledge and access 
that no one would presume he had. And a handkerchief with her 
scent. And why would he have that? It was okay. He was going to be 
okay. 

Except that line. Whether anyone pieced together his actions or 
not, he knew he had crossed it. In fact, he knew he’d been dancing on 
top of it for some time. Like when he’d taken Sejanus’s food from the 
dining hall to feed Lucy Gray. It had been a small infraction, 
motivated by his desire to keep her alive and his anger at the 
Gamemakers’ negligence. An argument could be made for basic 
decency there. But it was not a lone incident. He could see it all now, 
the slippery slope of the last few weeks that had started with Sejanus’s 
leftovers and ended with him here, shivering in the dark on a deserted 
park bench. What awaited him farther down that slope if he was 
unable to stop his descent? What else might he be capable of? Well, 
that was it. It stopped now. If he didn’t have honor, he had nothing. 


No more deception. No more shady strategies. No more 


rationalization. From now on he’d live honestly, and if he ended up as 
a beggar, at least he would be a decent one. 

His feet had carried him far from home, but he realized the Plinth 
apartment was just a few minutes away. Why not pop in? 

An Avox in a maid’s outfit opened the door and gestured to ask if 
she should take his book bag. He declined and inquired if Sejanus was 
free. She led him to a drawing room and indicated that he should sit. 
While he waited, he took in the furnishings with a knowing eye. Fine 
furniture, thick carpets, embroidered tapestries, a bronze bust of 
someone. While the exterior of the apartment had not impressed, no 
expense had been spared on the interior. All the Plinths needed was 
an address on the Corso to solidify their status. 

Mrs. Plinth bustled in, full of apologies and flour. Sejanus, it 
seemed, had gone to bed early, and he’d caught her in the kitchen. 
Would he come downstairs for a moment and have a cup of tea? Or 
perhaps she should serve tea in here, like the Snows had. No, no, he 
assured her, the kitchen would be fine. As if anyone served a guest in 
the kitchen but a Plinth. But he had not come to pass judgment. He 
had come to be thanked, and if that involved baked goods, all the 
better. 

“Would you like pie? I’ve got blackberry. Or peach if you can wait 
for it.” She nodded to a pair of newly assembled pies on the counter 
awaiting the oven. “Or maybe cake? I made custards this afternoon. 
The Avoxes like those best, because, you know, they’re easy to 


swallow. Coffee or tea or milk?” The lines between Ma’s eyebrows 


deepened in anxiety, as if nothing she could offer would be good 
enough. 

Although he’d eaten dinner, the events at the Citadel and the walk 
had left him drained. “Oh, milk, please. And the blackberry pie would 
be a real treat. No one can compete with your cooking.” 

Ma filled a large glass to the brim. She carved out a full quarter of 
the pie and plunked it onto a plate. “Do you like ice cream?” she 
asked. Several scoops of vanilla followed. She pulled a chair up to the 
surprisingly simple wooden table. It sat under a framed needlepoint of 
a mountain scene overlaid with a single word: HOME. “My sister sent 
me that. She’s the only one I really stay in touch with now. Or who 
stays in touch with me, I guess. Doesn’t really fit with the rest of the 
house, but I have my corner down here. Please, sit. Eat.” 

Her corner boasted the table with three mismatched chairs, the 
needlepoint, and a shelf filled with little oddities. A pair of rooster salt 
and pepper shakers, a marble egg, and a soft doll with patched 
clothing. The sum total of the possessions, Coriolanus suspected, that 
she’d brought from home. Her shrine to District 2. It was pitiful, the 
way she clung to that backward mountain region. Poor little displaced 
person without a hope of ever fitting in, spending her days making 
custards for Avoxes who would never taste them, and pining for the 
past. He watched her slide the pies into the oven and took a bite of his 
slice. His taste buds tingled in pleasure. 

“How is it?” she asked anxiously. 


“Superb,” he said. “Like everything you cook, Mrs. Plinth.” It 


wasn’t an exaggeration. Ma might be pathetic, but she was something 
of an artist in the kitchen. 

She allowed herself a small smile and joined him at the table. 
“Well, if you ever want seconds, our door is always open. I don’t even 
know how to begin to thank you, Coriolanus, for what you’ve done for 
us. Sejanus is my life. I’m sorry he can’t visit with you. He’s taken a 
lot of that sedative. Can’t seem to sleep otherwise. So angry, so lost. 
Well, I don’t have to tell you how unhappy he is.” 

“The Capitol isn’t really the best fit for him,” said Coriolanus. 

“For any of us Plinths, really. Strabo says that while it’s hard for us 
now, it will be better for Sejanus and his children, but I don’t know.” 
She glanced up at her shelf. “Your family and friends, that’s your real 
life, Coriolanus, and we left all ours back in Two. But you know that 
already. I can see it. ’m glad you’ve got your grandma and that sweet 
cousin.” 

Coriolanus found himself trying to cheer her up, saying that things 
would be better once Sejanus graduated from the Academy. The 
University had more people, and more kinds of people from all over 
the Capitol, and he was sure to make new friends. 

Mrs. Plinth nodded but didn’t seem convinced. The Avox maid 
caught her attention and communicated in a kind of sign language. 
“All right, he’ll come up after he finishes his pie,” Mrs. Plinth told her. 
“My husband would like to see you, if you don’t mind. I think he 
wants to thank you.” 


When Coriolanus swallowed his last bite of pie, he bid Ma good 


night and followed the maid up the stairs to the main floor. The thick 
carpeting silenced their footsteps, so they arrived at the open library 
door without warning, and he was able to get a look at Strabo Plinth 
with his guard down. The man stood at a fancy stone fireplace, his tall 
frame propped up by an elbow on the mantel, staring down into 
where the flame would be in another season. Now the hearth was cold 
and empty, and Coriolanus had to wonder what he saw there that 
would provoke the profoundly sad expression on his face. One hand 
gripped the velvet lapel of his expensive smoking jacket, which 
seemed all wrong, like Mrs. Plinth’s designer dress or Sejanus’s suit. 
The Plinths’ wardrobe always suggested they were trying too hard to 
be Capitol. The unquestionable quality of the clothes clashed with 
their district personae instead of disguising them, just as the 
Grandma’am in a flour-sack dress would still scream Corso. 

Mr. Plinth met his gaze, and Coriolanus felt a sensation he 
remembered from encounters with his own father, a mix of anxiety 
and awkwardness, as if, at that moment, he’d been caught doing 
something foolish. This man, however, was a Plinth, not a Snow. 

Coriolanus produced his best society smile. “Good evening, Mr. 
Plinth. I’m not disturbing you?” 

“Not at all. Come in. Sit.” Mr. Plinth gestured to the leather chairs 
before the fireplace rather than the ones before his imposing oak desk. 
This was to be personal, then, not business. “You’ve eaten? Of course, 
you couldn’t get out of the kitchen without my wife stuffing you like a 


turkey. Do you want a drink? A whiskey maybe?” 


Adults had never offered him any beverage stronger than posca, 
which went quickly enough to his head. He couldn’t risk that for this 
exchange. “I don’t know where ld put it,” he said with a laugh, 
patting his stomach as he settled himself into a chair. “But please, you 
go ahead.” 

“Oh, I don’t drink.” Mr. Plinth folded himself into the facing chair 
and looked Coriolanus over. “You look like your father.” 

“T hear that a lot,” said Coriolanus. “Did you know him?” 

“Our business overlapped at times.” He drummed his long fingers 
on the arm of the chair. “It’s striking, the resemblance. But you’re 
nothing like him, really.” 

No, thought Coriolanus. I’m poor and powerless. Although maybe 
the perceived difference was good for tonight’s purposes. His district- 
hating father would have loathed seeing Strabo Plinth admitted to the 
Capitol and becoming a titan of the munitions industry. That was not 
why he’d given his life in the war. 

“Nothing at all. Or you’d never have gone into that arena after my 


2) 


son,” continued Mr. Plinth. “Impossible to imagine Crassus Snow 
risking his life for me. I keep asking myself why you did it.” 

Not much choice, really, thought Coriolanus. “He’s my friend,” he 
said. 

“No matter how many times I hear that, it’s difficult to believe. 
But even from the beginning, Sejanus singled you out. Maybe you take 


after your mother, huh? She was always gracious to me when I came 


here on business before the war. Despite my background. The very 


definition of a lady. Never forgot it.” He gave Coriolanus a hard stare. 
“Are you like your mother?” 

The conversation wasn’t going the way Coriolanus had imagined. 
Where was the talk of reward money? He couldn’t be persuaded to 
take it if it was never offered. “I’d like to think I am, in some 
respects.” 

“In what respects?” asked Mr. Plinth. 

The line of questioning felt weird. In what way was he anything 
like that loving, adoring creature who’d sung him to sleep each night? 
“Well, we shared a fondness for music.” Did they? She liked music, 
and he didn’t hate it, he guessed. 

“Music, huh?” said Mr. Plinth, as if Coriolanus had said something 
as frivolous as puffy clouds. 

“And I do think we both believed that good fortune was... 
something to be repaid . . . on a daily basis. Not taken for granted,” he 
added. He had no idea what that meant, but it seemed to register with 
Mr. Plinth. 

He thought it over. “I’d agree with that.” 

“Oh, good. Yes, well, so . . . Sejanus,” Coriolanus reminded him. 

Mr. Plinth’s face grew weary. “Sejanus. Thank you, by the way, for 
saving his life.” 

“No thanks necessary. As I said, he’s my friend.” Now was the 
time. The time for the money, the refusal, the persuasion, the 
acceptance. 


“Good. Well, I guess you should get home. Your tribute’s still in 


the Games, right?” asked Mr. Plinth. 

Thrown by the dismissal, Coriolanus rose from his chair. “Oh. Yes. 
You’re right. Just wanted to check on Sejanus. Will he be back to 
school soon?” 

“No telling,” said Mr. Plinth. “But thanks for stopping by.” 

“Of course. Tell him he’s missed,” said Coriolanus. “Good night.” 

“Night.” Mr. Plinth gave him a nod. No money. Not even a 
handshake. 

Coriolanus left off balance and disappointed. The heavy bag of 
food and the chauffeur assigned to drive him home made a decent 
consolation prize, but in the end his visit had been a waste of time, 
especially when Dr. Gaul’s paper still awaited him. The “nice addition 
to your prize application.” Why did everything have to be an uphill 
battle for him? 

Coriolanus told Tigris he’d checked on Sejanus, and she didn’t 
press him for further explanation of his lateness. She made him a cup 
of the special jasmine tea — an indulgence like splurging on the 
tokens, but who cared now? He settled down to work, writing the 
three C-words on a scrap of paper. Chaos, control, and what was the 
third? Oh, yes. Contract. What happened if no one was in control of 
humanity? That was the topic he was supposed to address. And he 
had said there was chaos. And Dr. Gaul had said to start there. 

Chaos. Extreme disorder and confusion. “Like being in the arena,” 
Dr. Gaul had said. That “wonderful opportunity,” she had called it. 


“Transformative.” Coriolanus thought about what it had felt like to be 


in the arena, where there were no rules, no laws, no consequences to 
one’s actions. The needle of his moral compass had swung madly 
without direction. Fueled by the terror of being prey, how quickly he 
himself had become a predator, with no reservations about smashing 
Bobbin to death. He’d transformed, all right, but not into anything he 
was proud of — and being a Snow, he had more self-control than 
most. He tried to imagine what it would be like if the whole world 
played by those same rules. No consequences. People taking what 
they wanted, when they wanted, and killing for it if it came to that. 
Survival driving everything. There had been days during the war 
when they’d all been too scared to leave the apartment. Days when 
the lawlessness had made even the Capitol an arena. 

Yes, the lack of law, that was at the heart of it. So people needed 
to agree on laws to follow. Was that what Dr. Gaul had meant by 
“social contract”? The agreement not to rob, abuse, or kill one 
another? It had to be. And the law required enforcement, and that 
was where control came in. Without the control to enforce the 
contract, chaos reigned. The power that controlled needed to be 
greater than the people — otherwise, they would challenge it. The 
only entity capable of this was the Capitol. 

It took him until about two in the morning to sort that out, and 
then it barely filled a page. Dr. Gaul would want more, but that was 
all he could manage tonight. He crawled into bed, where he dreamed 
of Lucy Gray being hunted by the rainbow snakes. He awoke with a 


start, trembling, to the strains of the anthem. You have got to hold 


yourself together, he told himself. The Games can’t last much longer. 

The breakfast delights provided by Mrs. Plinth gave him a boost 
into day four of the Hunger Games. On the trolley, he gorged himself 
on a slice of blackberry pie, a sausage roll, and a cheese tart. Between 
the Games and the Plinths, his waistband was becoming snug. He 
would make an effort to walk home. 

Velvet ropes cordoned off the section of the dais with the eight 
remaining mentors, and now a sign with the occupant’s name hung on 
the back of each chair. Assigned seating — that was new, but 
probably an attempt to mitigate some of the snarkiness that had 
sprung up in the last few days. Coriolanus remained in the back row, 
between Io and Urban. Poor Festus was sandwiched between Vipsania 
and Clemensia. 

Lucky welcomed the audience with the long-suffering Jubilee, 
who’d been confined in a cage more suited to a rabbit than a bird. 
Nothing stirred in the arena, and the tributes seemed to be sleeping 
in. The only new development was that someone, likely Reaper, had 
dragged Jessup’s body to the line of the dead near the barricade. 

Coriolanus nervously awaited the announcement of Gaius Breen’s 
death, but no word was forthcoming. The Gamemakers spent time 
with the crowd in front of the arena, which continued to expand. The 
different fan clubs now sported shirts with tribute and mentor faces, 
and Coriolanus felt both pleased and embarrassed to see his image 
staring back at him from the giant screen. 


Not until midmorning did the first tribute make an appearance, 


and it took the audience a moment to place her. 

“It’s Wovey!” Hilarius shouted in relief. “She’s alive!” 

Coriolanus remembered the child as scrawny, but now she looked 
skeletal, her arms and legs like sticks, her cheeks sunken. She 
crouched at the mouth of a tunnel in her filthy striped dress, squinting 
into the sunlight and clutching an empty water bottle. 

“Hold on, Wovey! Food’s on the way!” said Hilarius, hammering 
away at his cuff. She couldn’t have much in the way of sponsors, but 
there was always someone willing to place a bet on a long shot. 

Lepidus swooped in, and Hilarius spoke at length about Wovey’s 
merits. He presented her absence as stealth, claiming it had been their 
strategy all along for her to hide and let the field clear. “And look at 
her! Here she is in the final eight!” As a half dozen drones sped across 
the arena toward her, Hilarius became even more excited. “There’s 
her food and water now! All she has to do is grab it and get back in 
hiding!” 

As the supplies showered her, Wovey lifted her hands but seemed 
in a daze. She pawed at the ground, located a bottle of water, and 
struggled to unscrew the cap. After a few gulps, she sank back against 
the wall and gave a small belch. A thin stream of silverish liquid 
trickled out of the side of her mouth and then she went still. 

The audience watched uncomprehendingly for a minute. 

“She’s dead,” announced Urban. 

“No! No, she’s not dead. She’s just resting!” said Hilarius. 


But the longer Wovey stared unblinkingly into the bright sunlight, 


the harder that was to believe. Coriolanus examined her spittle — 
neither clear nor bloody, but slightly off — and wondered if Lucy 
Gray had finally managed to put the rat poison to use. It would’ve 
been easy to poison the last swallow of water in a bottle and discard it 
in one of the tunnels. Desperate Wovey would not have thought twice 
about downing it. But no one else, not even Hilarius, seemed to find 
anything amiss. 

“T don’t know,” said Lepidus to Hilarius. “I think your friend might 
be right.” 

They waited another ten long minutes without a flicker of life 
from Wovey before Hilarius gave in and lifted his chair. Lepidus 
heaped on the praise, and Hilarius, while disappointed, reckoned 
things could have gone a lot worse. “She managed to hang in there a 
long time, given her condition. I wish she’d have come out sooner so I 
could’ve fed her, but I feel like I can hold my head up. The final eight 
is nothing to sneeze at!” 

Coriolanus mentally checked his list. Both tributes from 3, both 
from 4, and Treech and Reaper. That was all that stood between Lucy 
Gray and victory. Six tributes and a fair amount of luck. 

Wovey’s death went unnoticed for a while in the arena. It was 
almost lunchtime when Reaper came out from the barricade, still 
wearing his flag cape. He approached Wovey warily, but she had 
posed no threat alive, and she certainly didn’t dead. Reaper crouched 
beside her and picked up an apple, then frowned as he examined her 


face more closely. 


He knows, thought Coriolanus. He at least suspects that it wasn’t a 
natural death. 

Reaper dropped the apple, lifted Wovey into his arms, and headed 
to the dead tributes, abandoning the food and water on the ground. 

“You see?” Clemensia asked no one in particular. “You see what 
I’m dealing with? My tribute’s mentally unbalanced.” 

“I guess you're right,” said Festus. “Sorry about earlier.” 

And that was it. Wovey’s death caused no suspicion outside the 
arena, and inside it only Reaper questioned the cause. Lucy Gray was 
not prone to carelessness. Perhaps she’d even chosen frail Wovey as a 
target because the child’s already-grave condition would mask the 
poisoning. He felt frustrated by his inability to communicate with her 
and update their strategy together. With so few left, was hiding still 
the best approach, or would it be better for her to act more 
aggressively? Of course, he didn’t know. She could be planting 
poisoned food and water at this very moment. In which case, she’d 
need more, which he couldn’t provide if she didn’t make an 
appearance. Although he didn’t believe in it, he tried to channel her 
telepathically. Let me help, Lucy Gray. Or at least let me see that you’re 
all right, he thought. Then added, I miss you. 

Reaper had returned to the tunnels by the time District 4 
scavenged Wovey’s food. Their absolute lack of concern with its origin 
reassured Coriolanus that the possibility of poisoning had flown under 
the radar. They sat right down where Wovey died and gobbled up 


every bite, then they strolled back to their tunnel. Mizzen walked with 


a limp, but he would still outmatch most of the remaining tributes if it 
came to a fight. Coriolanus wondered if, in the end, it would all come 
down to Coral and Mizzen deciding which District 4 tribute took 
home the crown. 

In all his years, Coriolanus had never left a school lunch un- 
finished, but the cardboard bowls of lima beans on noodles turned his 
stomach. Still full from the Plinths’ breakfast, he just couldn’t bring 
himself to swallow even a spoonful, and it required a quick exchange 
of his untouched bowl with Festus’s empty one to avoid a reprimand. 
“Here. Lima beans still taste like the war to me.” 

“That’s me and oatmeal. One whiff and I want to hide in a 
bunker,” said Festus, who made quick work of the stuff. “Thanks. I 
overslept and missed breakfast.” 

Coriolanus hoped the lima beans hadn’t been a bad omen. Then he 
admonished himself. This was no time to start embracing 
superstitions. He needed to keep his wits sharp, stay personable for 
the cameras, and get through the day. Lucy Gray must be getting 
hungry by now. He planned his next food delivery while he sipped his 
water. 

With Hilarius gone, the three remaining mentor chairs in the back 
row had been centered, and Coriolanus resumed his seat in the 
middle. It was, as Domitia had called it, like a game of musical chairs, 
and these were the very people he’d played with during childhood. If 
he ever had children, and he planned to one day, would they still be 


among the elite Capitol social club? Or would they be relegated to 


lesser circles? It would help if they had a wider family network to 
draw on, but he and Tigris were the only Snows of their generation. 
Without her, he’d be headed into the future all alone. 

Little occurred in the arena that afternoon. Coriolanus watched for 
Lucy Gray, hoping for a chance to feed her, but she remained elusive. 
The audience outside the arena provided most of the excitement when 
Coral fans mixed it up with Treech fans over who was worthiest to be 
crowned victor. A few punches were thrown before the Peacekeepers 
separated the two groups, sending them to opposite sides of the 
crowd. Coriolanus felt glad his own fans had a little more class. 

In late afternoon, when Lucky resumed his coverage, Dr. Gaul sat 
across from him holding Jubilee in his cage. The bird rocked back and 
forth like a small child trying to comfort itself. Lucky eyed his pet 
with worry, perhaps anticipating its loss to the labs. “We have a 
special guest with us today: Head Gamemaker Dr. Gaul, who’s been 
making friends with Jubilee. I hear you have some sad news for us, 
Dr. Gaul.” 

Dr. Gaul moved Jubilee’s cage to the table. “Yes. Due to injuries 
sustained in the rebel bombing of the arena, another of our Academy 
students, Gaius Breen, has died.” 

As his classmates cried out, Coriolanus tried to center himself. Any 
minute he might be called upon to respond to Gaius’s death, but that 
wasn’t the source of his anxiety. Gaius would be easy enough to 
eulogize; he hadn’t an enemy in the world. 


“T think I speak for everyone when I say we extend our sympathies 


to the family,” said Lucky. 

Dr. Gaul’s face hardened. “We do. But actions speak louder than 
words, and our rebel enemies seem somewhat hard of hearing. In 
response, we’ve planned something special for their children in the 
arena.” 

“Shall we tune in?” said Lucky. 

In the center of the arena, Teslee and Circ squatted over a pile of 
rubble, poking around for who knew what. Apparently, they held no 
interest for Reaper, who sat high in the stands, his back to the arena 
wall, wrapped in his cape. Suddenly, Treech burst out of a tunnel and 
bore down on the District 3 tributes, who fled for the barricade. 

Murmurs of confusion came from the audience. Where was the 
“something special” promised by Dr. Gaul? They were answered by the 
sight of an oversized drone flying into the arena, transporting the 
rainbow snake tank. 

Coriolanus had all but convinced himself that the snake attack had 
been a product of an overheated imagination, but the entry of the 
tank ended that. His brain had assembled the puzzle pieces in exactly 
the right order. What he didn’t know was how the snakes would 
respond to being unleashed, but he’d been in the lab. Dr. Gaul did not 
breed lapdogs; she designed weapons. 

The unusual package caught Treech’s attention. Perhaps he 
thought some extra-special gift had been earmarked for him, because 
he halted as the drone reached the middle of the arena. Teslee and 


Circ paused as well, and even Reaper rose to observe the delivery. The 


drone released the uncovered tank about ten yards above the ground. 
Rather than shattering, the container bounced on impact. Then, like a 
flower opening its petals, its walls fell to the ground. 

Snakes shot out in all directions, creating a multicolored sunburst 
in the dust. 

In the front row, Clemensia jumped to her feet and let out a 
bloodcurdling scream, almost causing Festus to fall out of his chair. As 
most people were only just registering the new development on the 
screen, her reaction seemed extreme. Afraid that Clemensia would 
spill the whole story in her panic, Coriolanus leaped up and wrapped 
his arms around her from behind, not sure if the move was meant to 
be comforting or confining. Clemensia went rigid but silent. 

“They’re not here. They’re in the arena,” Coriolanus said in her 
ear. “You’re safe.” But he continued to hold on to her as the action 
unfolded. 

Maybe Treech’s lumber district background had given him some 
familiarity with snakes. The second they erupted from the tank, he’d 
turned on his heel and sprinted for the stands. He bounced up the 
debris hill like a goat and kept moving, hurdling over seats as he 
ascended. 

The few moments of confusion that Teslee and Circ experienced 
came at a great cost. Teslee made it to one of the poles and managed 
to shinny up a few yards to safety, but Circ stumbled over a rusty, old 
spear, and the snakes overtook him. A dozen pairs of fangs pierced his 


body and then, as if satisfied, the snakes moved on. Pink, yellow, and 


blue streaked his body as the wounds pumped out bright pus. Smaller 
than Clemensia, with double the venom in his system, Circ struggled 
to breathe for about ten seconds before he died. 

Teslee stared at his fallen body and sobbed in terror as she clung 
to the pole. Below her, the delicate snakes bunched, rearing up and 
dancing around the base. 

Lucky’s voice-over boomed above the scene. “What’s happening?” 

“These are muttations we’ve developed in our labs in the Capitol,” 
Dr. Gaul informed the audience. “They’re only snakelets, but full- 
grown they’ll easily outrun a human, and that post will be no problem 
for them to climb. They’re designed to hunt humans and reproduce 
rapidly so any casualties can be swiftly replaced.” 

By this time, Treech had climbed out onto the narrow shelf over 
the scoreboard, and Reaper had found refuge on the roof of the press 
box. The few snakes that had managed to scale the rubble into the 
stands gathered below them. 

The mics picked up the muted sounds of a girl’s scream. 

They got Lucy Gray, Coriolanus thought in despair. The handkerchief 
didn’t work. 

But just then, Mizzen exploded from the tunnel nearest the 
barricade, followed by a shrieking Coral. A single snake dangled from 
her arm. She tore it free, but dozens charged for her the moment it hit 
the ground, targeting her lower legs. Mizzen flung away his trident 
and made a flying leap to gain the pole across from Teslee. Despite his 


bad knee, he halved his previous time climbing to the top. From there 


he witnessed Coral’s frantic, but blissfully short, end. 

With the targets on the ground disposed of, most of the snakes 
regrouped under Teslee. Her grip on the pole began to fail, and she 
cried out to Mizzen for help, but he only shook his head, more 
stunned than malicious. 

People in the audience began shushing each other then, although 
Coriolanus did not know why. As the hall quieted, he picked up on 
what sharper ears had detected. Somewhere, ever so faintly, someone 
was singing in the arena. 

His girl. 

Lucy Gray emerged from her tunnel moving in slow motion, and 
backward. She lifted each foot with care as she stepped behind 


herself, swaying gently to the rhythm of her music. 


La, la, la, la, 
La, la, la, la, la, la, 


La, la, la, la, la, la... 


That was the extent of the lyrics at the moment, but it was 
compelling nonetheless. Following her, as if mesmerized by the 
melody, came half a dozen snakes. 

Coriolanus released Clemensia, who had calmed down, giving her 
a gentle push in Festus’s direction. He stepped toward the screen, 
holding his breath as Lucy Gray continued to back in and then curve 
around toward where Jessup’s body had lain. Her voice became 


louder as she, knowingly or not, worked her way back to the mic. 


Perhaps for one last song, one last performance. 

None of the snakes were inclined to attack her, though. In fact, she 
seemed to be drawing them from around the arena. The bunch under 
Teslee’s pole thinned, a few dropped from the stands, and dozens 
slithered out of the tunnels to join in a general migration to Lucy 
Gray. They surrounded her, flocking in from all sides, making it 
impossible for her to continue retreating. The bright bodies undulated 
over her bare feet, curling around her ankles as she lowered herself 
gently onto a chunk of marble. 

With the tips of her fingers, she spread her ruffles out in the dust, 
as if by way of invitation. As the snakes swarmed her, the faded fabric 


vanished, leaving her with a brilliant skirt of weaving reptiles. 


> 


Coriolanus squeezed his hands into fists, unsure of the vipers’ 
intentions. The snakes in the tank, having been exposed to his scent 
on the proposal, had entirely ignored him. But these seemed 
magnetically drawn to his tribute. Could it be that the environment 
made the difference? Violently released from the warm, close quarters 
of their tank into the vast, unsheltered arena, were they seeking her 
out as the only familiar scent they could find? Had they gravitated to 
her to harbor in the safety of her skirt? 

Lucy Gray knew nothing of this, because that day in the zoo when 
hed meant to tell her about Clemensia and the snakes, her 
circumstances had been so much worse than his own that he’d kept 
silent on the subject. Even if he had told her, it would be a real leap of 
faith in his abilities to imagine he’d found a way to tamper with the 
snakes in the Games. What did she think was keeping them in check? 
It had to be her singing. Had she sung to the snakes at home? “That 
snake was a particular friend of mine,” she’d told the little girl in the 


zoo. Perhaps she’d befriended several snakes back in District 12. 


Perhaps she thought if she stopped singing, they would indeed kill her 
now. Perhaps this was her swan song. She would never want to go out 
without a finale. She would want to die with her boots on, in the 
brightest spotlight she could find. 

When Lucy Gray began the lyrics, her voice was soft but clear as a 


bell. 


You’re headed for heaven, 

The sweet old hereafter, 

And I’ve got one foot in the door. 
But before I can fly up, 

I’ve loose ends to tie up, 


Right here in The old therebefore. 


An old song, Coriolanus thought. With talk of the hereafter, which 
reminded him of Sejanus and his bread crumbs, but also that funny 
line about the therebefore. That must mean the present. Here. Now. 


While she was still alive. 


TIl be along 

When I’ve finished my song, 
When I’ve shut down the band, 
When I’ve played out my hand, 
When I’ve paid all my debts, 
When I have no regrets, 


Right here in 


The old therebefore, 
When nothing 
Is left anymore. 


The Gamemakers cut to a longer shot, which made Coriolanus 
want to shout an objection until he realized why. Every snake in the 
arena appeared to have fallen subject to her siren’s song and flocked 
to her. Even those in the nest under Teslee, who was ready prey, had 
abandoned their target and made for Lucy Gray. Still shuddering from 
the trauma, Teslee slid shakily to the ground and hobbled over to a 
chain-link fence on one section of the barricade. She climbed her way 


to a safe height while the song continued. 


I'll catch you up 

When I’ve emptied my cup, 
When I’ve worn out my friends, 
When I’ve burned out both ends, 
When I’ve cried all my tears, 
When I’ve conquered my fears, 
Right here in 

The old therebefore, 

When nothing 


Is left anymore. 


The camera made its way back to a tight shot of Lucy Gray. 


Coriolanus had the feeling that she usually catered to an audience 


well plied with liquor. In the days before her interview, he’d listened 
to many a number that conjured up a drunken group waving tin cups 
of gin from side to side in some dive bar. Although the liquor didn’t 
seem essential, because when he took a quick look over his shoulder, 
he saw that several people in Heavensbee Hall had begun to sway to 


her rhythm. Her voice rose in volume, echoing around the arena... 


Ill bring the news 

When I’ve danced off my shoes, 
When my body’s closed down, 
When my boat’s run aground, 
When I’ve tallied the score, 
And I’m flat on the floor, 

Right here in 

The old therebefore, 

When nothing 


Is left anymore 


. . . and then reaching a crescendo as she brought it home. 


When I’m pure like a dove, 
When I’ve learned how to love, 
Right here in 

The old therebefore, 

When nothing 


Is left anymore. 


The last note hung in the air while the audience held its collective 
breath. The snakes waited for it to fade, and then — or was it his 
imagination? — began to stir. Lucy Gray responded by softly 
humming, as if to a restless baby. The viewers quietly relaxed as the 
snakes relaxed around her. 

Lucky looked as spellbound as the snakes when the cameras cut 
back to him, eyes a bit glazed, mouth slackly open. He snapped back 
when he saw his own image on the feed, and turned his attention to a 
stone-faced Dr. Gaul. “Well, Head Gamemaker, take... a... bow!” 

Heavensbee Hall erupted into a standing ovation, but Coriolanus 
could not peel his eyes off Dr. Gaul. What was going on behind that 
inscrutable expression? Did she attribute the snakes’ behavior to Lucy 
Gray’s singing, or did she suspect foul play? Even if Dr. Gaul knew 
about the handkerchief, perhaps she would forgive him, as the result 
had been so dramatic. 

Dr. Gaul allowed herself a small nod of acknowledgment. “Thank 
you. But the focus today should be not on me, but on Gaius Breen. 
Perhaps his classmates might share some remembrances with us.” 

Lepidus leaped into action in Heavensbee Hall, collecting stories 
from Gaius’s classmates. It was well that Dr. Gaul had given him a 
heads-up, because while everybody had a joke or a funny story to 
share, only Coriolanus managed to tie in the heroic loss, the snakes, 
and the retribution they had witnessed in the arena. “We could never 
let the death of such a stellar youth of the Capitol go without 


repercussions. When hit, we hit back twice as hard, just as Dr. Gaul 


has mentioned in the past.” 

Lepidus tried to turn the conversation to Lucy Gray’s extra- 
ordinary performance with the snakes, but Coriolanus only said, 
“She’s remarkable. But Dr. Gaul is right. This moment belongs to 
Gaius. Let’s save Lucy Gray for tomorrow.” 

After a full half hour of remembrance, Lepidus bid the show’s 
adieus to Festus and Io, as Coral and Circ had succumbed to venom. 
Coriolanus gave Festus a bear hug, surprisingly emotional at seeing 
his reliable friend leave the dais. He felt the loss of Io as well, since 
she veered more toward clinical than combative, which was more 
than he could say for the others remaining. Except perhaps 
Persephone, who he decided to share his supper hour with. Cannibals 
over cutthroats. 

The student body went home, leaving the handful of active 
mentors to their steak dinners. Coriolanus glanced around at his 
competitors. Being in the final five, he should have been flying high. 
But if one of the others won, Dean Highbottom could still give him a 
prize that was insufficient to pay for university, perhaps citing the 
demerit as his reason. Only the Plinth Prize would truly protect him. 

He shifted his focus to the screen, where Lucy Gray continued to 
hum to her pets, Teslee disappeared behind the barricade, and 
Mizzen, Treech, and Reaper held their lofty positions. Clouds rolled 
in, portending a storm and creating a dazzling sunset. The bad 
weather brought a quick nightfall, and he had not yet finished his 


pudding when Lucy Gray faded from view, and a deep rumble of 


thunder shook the arena. He hoped for lightning to provide some 
illumination, but the heavy downpour that followed made the night 
impenetrable. 

Coriolanus decided to sleep in Heavensbee Hall, as did the other 
four remaining mentors. No one except Vipsania had thought to bring 
bedding, so the rest arranged themselves in the padded chairs, 
propping up their feet and using book bags as makeshift pillows. As 
the rainy night cooled the hall, Coriolanus dozed in his chair, one eye 
half-open for any activity on the screen. The storm obscured all, and 
eventually he drifted off. Near dawn, he woke with a start and looked 
around. Vipsania, Urban, and Persephone slept soundly. From a few 
yards away, Clemensia’s large dark eyes shone in the dim light. 

He did not want to be her enemy. If the Snow fortress was about 
to fall, he would need friends. Until the snake incident, he’d counted 
Clemensia among his best. And she’d always gotten on well with 
Tigris, too. But how to make amends? 

Clemensia had one hand tucked inside her shirt, where she 
fingered the collarbone she’d presented in the hospital. The one 
covered in scales. 

“Did they go away?” he whispered. 

Clemensia tensed. “They’re fading. Finally. They said it may take 
as long as a year.” 

“Are they painful?” It was the first time the idea had occurred to 
him. 


“Not painful. They pull. On my skin.” She rubbed the scales. “It’s 


hard to explain.” 

Heartened by the confidence, he took the plunge. “I’m sorry, 
Clemmie. Really. About all of it.” 

“You didn’t know what she had planned,” said Clemensia. 

“No, I didn’t. But after, in the hospital, I should’ve been there for 
you. I should’ve broken down the doors to make sure you were okay,” 
he insisted. 

“Yes!” she said emphatically, but she seemed to relent a little. “But 
I know you were hurt, too. In the arena.” 

“Oh, don’t make excuses for me.” He threw up his hands. “I’m 
worthless and we both know it!” 

A hint of a smile. “Almost. I guess I should thank you for keeping 
me from making a complete fool of myself today.” 

“Did I?” He squinted as if trying to recall. “All I remember is 
clinging to you. Not necessarily hiding behind you. But there was 
definitely clinging.” 

She laughed a little but then became serious. “I shouldn’t have 
blamed so much on you. I’m sorry. I was terrified.” 

“With good reason. I wish you hadn’t had to watch that today,” he 
said. 

“Maybe it was cathartic. I feel better somehow,” she confessed. 
“Am I terrible?” 

“No,” he said. “The only thing you are is brave.” 

And so their friendship was shakily renewed. They let the others 


sleep while they shared the last cheese tart in Coriolanus’s stash, 


talking of this and that and even rolling around the idea of trying to 
set up an alliance between Lucy Gray and Reaper in the arena. Since it 
seemed out of their control, they abandoned it. The two would pair up 
together or they would not. 

“At least we’re allies again,” he said. 

“Well, not enemies anyway,” Clemensia allowed. But when they 
went to wash their faces for the cameras, she loaned him her soap so 
he wouldn’t have to use the abrasive liquid goop in the bathrooms, 
and somehow the small but intimate gesture let him know he was 
forgiven. 

No breakfast was provided, but Festus came in early to pass out 
egg sandwiches and apples in the spirit of camaraderie. Persephone 
beamed at him over her teacup. Now that Clemensia had lightened 
up, Coriolanus didn’t feel as threatened by the mentor pool. They all 
wanted to win, but that was largely in their tributes’ hands. He 
assessed Lucy Gray’s competitors. Teslee, small and brainy. Mizzen, 
deadly but injured. Treech, athletic but still something of an 
unknown. Reaper, too strange for words. 

The last of the clouds rolled out with the sunrise. Dead snakes 
littered the arena, draped over rubble, floating in puddles. Drowned, 
perhaps, or unable to survive the cold, wet night. Some genetically 
engineered creatures didn’t do well outside the lab. Lucy Gray and 
Teslee were nowhere to be seen, but the three boys in soggy clothes 
hadn’t ventured down from the heights. Mizzen was sleeping, his body 


belted to the beam. As the other students filed into Heavensbee Hall, 


Vipsania and Clemensia, who seemed almost normal, sent food to 
their tributes. 

When the drones arrived, Treech ate hungrily, but Reaper again 
brushed off his food, climbing down into the arena to scoop water 
from a puddle. Indifferent to Treech and Mizzen, who finally awoke, 
he went about collecting Coral and Circ and adding them to his row. 
The other boys watched him warily, but neither engaged him, put off 
either by his eccentric behavior or the possibility of stray snakes. They 
were probably hoping that someone else would finish him off, but his 
work remained un-interrupted, and he returned to the press box when 
he’d tidied his morgue. Treech sat on the edge of the scoreboard, 
swinging his feet, while Mizzen mimed eating. Persephone responded 
immediately, ordering him a large breakfast. 

After a minute, Teslee showed up. Her face pinched in 
concentration, she hauled out a drone that, while much like the 
original delivery craft, appeared slightly altered. She positioned 
herself directly under Mizzen. 

“Does she think that will fly?” asked Vipsania dubiously. “Even if 
it does, how can she control it?” 

Urban, who’d been scowling at the screen, sat forward suddenly in 
his seat. “She wouldn’t have to. She wouldn’t need to if — But how 
did she. . .” He trailed off, trying to puzzle something out. 

Teslee flipped a switch, raised her arms, and launched the drone 
into the air. It ascended, revealing a cable that connected the base of 


the drone to a loop on her wrist. Thus tethered, the drone began to fly 


in a circle about halfway between her and Mizzen. He looked down, 
clearly perplexed, but got distracted by the arrival of his first drone 
from Persephone. It dropped a chunk of bread down to him and made 
as if to return home as usual. Then, a few yards out, it swerved and 
came back at him. Mizzen leaned back, surprised. He reflexively 
swatted at it, but it only passed over him, opening its claws to deliver 
a nonexistent gift, and came in again. 

“What’s wrong with that drone?” asked Persephone. 

No one knew, but at that moment, a second drone came in with 
water, and a third with cheese. They, too, deposited their packets, 
only to hang around, attempting repeated deliveries. But the drones, 
which had been timed for a smooth airdrop, began to bump into one 
another, and sometimes into Mizzen. The tail of one caught him in the 
eye, and he cried out, lashing at it. 

“Is there any way for me to contact the Gamemakers? I mean, I 
sent three more!” said Persephone. 

“There’s nothing they can do,” said Urban in amusement. “She 
found a way to hack them. She’s blocked their homing direction, so 
his face is their only destination.” 

Sure enough, as the other three drones arrived, one at a time, they 
malfunctioned in a similar fashion. Mizzen was their sole target, and 
what had seemed at first funny turned deadly. He got to his feet and 
attempted to flee down the beam, but they swarmed around him like 
bees to a honeypot. Having left his trident on the ground, he pulled 


his knife and attempted to fight them, but the most he achieved was 


momentarily knocking them off course. They weren’t programmed to 
make contact with him, but as they ricocheted off one another and his 
blade, more and more collided into him, until they gave the 
appearance of an attack. Mizzen began to grope his way to a pole — 
the very one on which he’d left Teslee to her fate — but his knee 
would not cooperate. Frantic now, he took a wild swing at the drones, 
throwing his weight onto his injured leg, which wobbled and then 
gave way. He lost his balance and plummeted toward the ground, 
snapping his neck sideways on contact. 

“Oh!” Persephone exclaimed as he hit the ground. “Oh, she killed 
him!” 

Vipsania frowned at the screen. “She’s smarter than she looks.” 

Teslee gave a satisfied smile and reeled in her drone, switching it 
off and giving it a loving hug. 

“Do not judge a book by its cover.” Urban chuckled as he tapped 
some gifts into his communicuff. “Especially if it belongs to me.” 

His glee was short-lived. While featuring the drone incident, the 
Gamemakers had neglected to show the wider picture, in which 
Treech had climbed down from the scoreboard and through the 
stands, dropping into the arena. He seemed to appear out of thin air, 
making a gigantic leap into the frame and bringing his ax down on 
Teslee in one fell swoop. She had barely taken a step when the blade 
connected with her skull, splitting it open and killing her instantly. 
Treech leaned his hands on his knees, puffing with exertion, and then 


sat right on the ground next to her, watching the blood ooze into the 


sand. The drones arriving with a shower of food for her set him in 
motion again. He collected a dozen parcels and withdrew behind the 
barricade. 

Urban covered his moment of disbelief with disgust and rose to go. 
He could not escape Lepidus’s ever-present mic, though, and barely 
managed not to snarl when he said, “That’s it for me. Laugh a minute, 
wasn’t it?” Then he walked off, leaving Persephone to expand on her 
regrets and her gratitude for the opportunity to be a mentor. 

“You made the top five!” Lepidus beamed at her. “No one can ever 
take that away from you.” 

“No,” she said somewhat dubiously. “No, that’s the kind of thing 
that sticks.” 

Coriolanus looked from Clemensia to Vipsania. “Just us, I guess.” 
The three arranged their chairs in a row, with Coriolanus in the 
middle, while others cleared away the seats of the defeated. 

Lucy Gray. Treech. Reaper. Final three. Final girl. Final day? 
Maybe that, too. 

Lucky made his entrance in a hat stuck with five sparklers. “Hello, 
Panem! Had this hat done especially for the final five, but they’ve 
been sending off their own sparks!” He pulled two sparklers out of the 
hat and hurled them over his shoulder blindly. “Final three, 
anybody?” 

One of the sparklers fizzled out on the floor, but the second set a 
curtain to smoking, eliciting a high-pitched yipping sound and 


panicked footwork from Lucky. A crew member ran on-screen with a 


fire extinguisher to handle the crisis, allowing Lucky to regain his 
composure. As his three remaining hat sparklers died, the number for 
sponsors and gamblers began flashing at the bottom of the screen. 
“Whoowee! The betting’s getting hot and heavy! Do not miss out on 
the fun!” 

Coriolanus’s communicuff pinged healthily, but so did Vipsania’s 
and Clemensia’s. “A lot of good it will do me,” Clemensia murmured 
to Coriolanus. “He doesn’t trust me enough to eat anything I send.” 

Lucy Gray had to be hungry, but he assumed she was resting in the 
tunnels. He wanted to send her food and water, both for sustenance 
and as a conduit for the poison. Since her last two opponents could 
easily overpower her, he had to do something to put the odds in her 
favor. For now, he could think of nothing but to keep the crowd on 
her side. When Lepidus approached him for his promised thoughts on 
Lucy Gray’s performance, he laid it on thick. Coriolanus didn’t know 
what it would take to prove to people she was not district if she 
hadn’t convinced them by now. “I feel a great injustice may have 
occurred by her being not just in the reaping, but in District Twelve at 
all. People will need to judge for themselves. If you agree with me, or 
even suspect I might be right, you know what to do.” While the new 
barrage of donations hitting his communicuff was affirming, he didn’t 
know how it would help. He could probably feed her for weeks on 
what he already had. 

But the only tribute moving around the arena was Reaper, who 


had descended from the press box, cutting off another large swath of 


flag on his way. Gaunt and unsteady, he teetered over to add Teslee 
and Mizzen to his collection, using the new piece of flag to cover 
them. With effort, he climbed up to the back row of the arena, where 
he dozed in the sunlight, rocking gently back and forth, his cape 
spread out to dry. Coriolanus wondered if he would soon perish of 
natural causes. If starving to death was a natural cause. He wasn’t 
entirely sure. Was it natural if hunger had been used as a weapon? 

To his relief, Lucy Gray materialized just before noon in the 
shadows of a tunnel. She surveyed the arena and, judging it safe, 
stepped into the sunlight. The mud on the hem of her ruffled skirt had 
begun to cake, but the damp dress still clung to her. While Coriolanus 
ordered her a feast on his communicuff, Lucy Gray crossed to Reaper’s 
puddle and knelt. She scooped up water, slaking her thirst and 
washing her face. After combing out her hair with her fingers, she 
twisted it into a loose knot, finishing just as a dozen drones entered 
the arena. 

She appeared not to notice them as she took a bottle from her 
pocket and dipped the neck into the puddle, collecting an inch or so 
of water. After swishing it around, Lucy Gray poured the water back 
into the puddle and was making to refill the bottle when the incoming 
drones caught her attention. As the food and water began to drop 
around her, she tossed away the old bottle and gathered her gifts into 
her skirt. 

Lucy Gray started for the nearest tunnel but then glanced up at 


Reaper lolling in the stands. She changed course, hurried to his 


morgue, and lifted the flag material. Her lips moved as she counted 
the fallen. 

“She’s trying to figure out who’s left in the Games,” Coriolanus 
said into the mic that Lepidus had pushed in his face. 

“Maybe we should put it up on the scoreboard,” joked Lepidus. 

“Pm sure the tributes would find that helpful,” said Coriolanus. 
“Seriously, that’s a good idea.” 

Suddenly, Lucy Gray’s head shot up, and the provisions in her skirt 
fell to the dirt as she turned on her heel and ran. She had heard what 
the audience could not. Treech swung out from behind the barricade, 
wielding his ax, and caught her wrist as she passed under the beam. 
Lucy Gray twisted around, dropping to her knees, fighting wildly as 
he raised the ax. 

“No!” Coriolanus jumped to his feet, pushing Lepidus aside. “Lucy 
Gray!” 

Then two things happened simultaneously. As the ax began to fall, 
she flung herself into Treech’s arms and clung to him, avoiding the 
blade. Bizarrely, they seemed to embrace each other for a long 
moment, until Treech’s eyes widened in horror. He shoved her away, 
dropping the ax, and tore something from the back of his neck. His 
hand shot into the air, fingers gripped tightly around the bright pink 
snake. Then he collapsed to his knees and smashed it into the ground, 
again and again, until he fell dead in the dirt, the lifeless snake still 
clutched in his fist. 


Her chest rising and falling, Lucy Gray whipped around to locate 


Reaper, but he still sat rocking in the stands. Momentarily safe, she 
pressed one hand against her heart and waved to the audience. 

As the crowd in the hall applauded, Coriolanus let his breath out 
in a huff and turned to acknowledge it. He’d done it. She’d done it. 
With her pockets full of poison, she’d made it to the final two. She 
must have sheltered the pink snake in her pocket, just as she had the 
green one at the reaping. Were there more? Or had Treech beaten the 
final survivor to death? No telling. But just the possibility of another 
reptilian weapon made Lucy Gray seem deadly. 

While Lepidus ushered off Vipsania— who thanked the 
Gamemakers through gritted teeth — Coriolanus sank into his chair 
and watched Lucy Gray reclaim her feast. He leaned over to 
Clemensia and whispered, “I’m glad it’s us.” She answered with a 
conspiratorial smile. 

As Lucy Gray flattened the wrappings and spread all her food out 
in a pleasing fashion, Coriolanus thought of their picnic at the zoo. 
Was she restaging it now for his benefit? Something tugged at his 
heart, and the memory of the kiss hit him. Were there more in his 
future? For a minute, he drifted into a daydream of Lucy Gray 
winning, leaving the arena, and coming to live with him in the Snows’ 
penthouse, which was somehow saved from taxes. He’d attend the 
University on his Plinth Prize while she headlined at Pluribus’s newly 
reopened nightclub, because the Capitol would agree to let her stay 
and, well, he hadn’t worked out all of the details, but the point was, 


he got to keep her. And he wanted to keep her. Safe and close at 


hand. Admired and admiring. Devoted. And entirely, unequivocally 
his. If what she’d said just before she kissed him — “The only boy my 
heart has a sweet spot for now is you” — was true, then wouldn’t she 
want that, too? 

Stop it! he thought. No one has won anything yet! She had polished 
off most of her food, so he ordered another round, a large one that she 
could squirrel away and live off for the next few days, in case she just 
decided to hunker down and wait for Reaper to die. It was a good 
plan, low risk to her and inevitable if he stayed on his current course 
of rejecting all sustenance. But what if he didn’t? What if he regained 
his senses and decided to eat the nearly unlimited sponsor gifts that 
Clemensia could provide him with? Then it would come down to a 
physical matchup again, and Lucy Gray would be at a real 
disadvantage unless she was packing more snakes. 

When the drones had delivered her supplies, Lucy Gray sorted 
them and stowed them in her pockets. They hadn’t seemed spacious 
enough to hold all the food and drink along with another snake, but 
she was awfully clever. He hadn’t even seen her remove the snake 
that killed Treech. 

Festus brought Coriolanus and Clemensia sandwiches at lunch, but 
they were both too nervous to eat. The rest of the students ate in their 
seats, not wanting to miss a moment. Coriolanus could hear whispered 
yet passionate debates over who would win the day. He could never 
remember people caring in the past. 


The beating sun began to dry out the arena, soaking up the 


shallow puddles and leaving only a few deep enough to drink from. 
Lucy Gray rested on a bit of rubble, her skirt spread out to catch the 
rays. The lull brought out Lucky, who gave a detailed weather 
forecast, including a heat advisory and tips to avoid related cramps, 
exhaustion, and stroke. The line at the lemonade stand outside the 
arena stretched long, and people hid under umbrellas or crammed 
into precious bits of shade. Even the dependable coolness of 
Heavensbee Hall failed, so students stripped off their jackets and 
fanned themselves with notebooks. By midafternoon, the school had 
made fruit punch available, which gave a festive feel to the event. 
Lucy Gray kept Reaper in her sights, but he’d made no move to 
engage her. Suddenly, she rose as if impatient to get on with things, 
and retraced her steps to Treech’s body. Taking hold of one ankle, she 
began to drag him over to Reaper’s morgue. Reaper appeared to wake 
up the moment she touched the body. He leaned out and shouted 
something unintelligible, then hurried down from the stands. Lucy 
Gray let go of Treech and ran to a nearby tunnel. Reaper assumed the 
job of transporting Treech, placing him neatly in the row of dead 
tributes and covering him with the flag remnant. Satisfied, he made 
his way back to the stands, but he’d only just reached the wall when 
Lucy Gray ran out from a second tunnel, pulled one of the flag pieces 
off the bodies, and gave a holler. Reaper whipped around and ran at 
her. Lucy Gray wasted no time in vanishing behind the barricade. 
Reaper replaced the flag, tucking the fabric under the bodies to hold it 


more securely in place, and went to rest against a pole. After a few 


minutes, he seemed to drift off, his eyes closed against the sun. Lucy 
Gray darted out again, yanked one of the flag segments free, and this 
time ran off with it trailing behind her. By the time Reaper had come 
to realize her disruption, she’d put fifty yards between them. His 
indecision allowed her to widen her lead, and she dragged the flag to 
the dead center of the arena, where she left it in the dirt and made for 
the stands. Angry now, Reaper ran over and repossessed his flag. He 
took a few steps after her, but the exertion had taken a toll on him. 
Pressing his hands against his temples, he panted rapidly, although he 
didn’t appear to be sweating. As Lucky’s recent update had reminded 
them, that could be a sign of heatstroke. 

She’s trying to run him to death, thought Coriolanus. And it might just 
work. 

Reaper staggered a bit, as though drunk. Flag in tow, he made his 
way to his puddle, one of the few that hadn’t dried up during the 
afternoon. He dropped down on his knees and drank, slurping until 
only a muddy sludge remained on the bottom. As he sat back on his 
heels, a funny look crossed his face, and his fingers began to knead his 
ribs and chest. He vomited up a portion of the water, then retched for 
a while on his hands and knees before rising unsteadily. Still gripping 
the flag in one hand, he began to walk, in slow, uneven steps, back 
toward his morgue. Reaper had just made it when he collapsed on the 
ground, dragging himself in line next to Treech. One hand made an 
attempt to pull the flag over the group, but he managed only to cover 


himself partway before he drew in his limbs and went still. 


Coriolanus sat frozen in anticipation. Was that it? Had he really 
won? The Hunger Games? The Plinth Prize? The girl? He studied Lucy 
Gray’s face as she watched Reaper from the stands, but she had a 
distant look, as if she were far away from the action in the arena. 

The audience in the hall began to murmur. Was Reaper dead? 
Shouldn’t they be declaring a winner? Coriolanus and Clemensia 
waved Lepidus and his mic away as they awaited the outcome. Half 
an hour passed before Lucy Gray climbed down from the stands and 
approached Reaper. She placed her fingers on his neck, checking his 
pulse. Satisfied, she closed his eyelids and tenderly arranged the flag 
over the tributes, as if she were putting children to bed. Then she 
went over and sat against a pole to wait. 

This seemed to convince the Gamemakers, because Lucky 
appeared, jumping up and down, announcing that Lucy Gray Baird, 
tribute of District 12, and her mentor, Coriolanus Snow, had won the 
Tenth Hunger Games. 

Heavensbee Hall erupted around Coriolanus, and Festus organized 
a few classmates to lift his chair and parade him around the dais. 
When they finally set him down, Lepidus hounded him with 
questions, to which he could only reply that the experience had been 
both exhilarating and humbling. Then the entire student body was 
directed to the dining hall, where cake and posca had been provided 
for a celebration. Coriolanus sat in a place of honor, receiving 
congratulations and downing more posca than was good for him. So 


what? Right now, he felt invincible. 


Satyria rescued him just as his head felt fuzzy, ushering him from 
the dining hall and directing him to the high biology lab. “I think 
they’re bringing your girl over. Don’t be surprised if they put you on 
camera together. Well done.” 

Coriolanus gave her a spontaneous hug and hurried for the lab, 
grateful for the moment of quiet. He felt his lips stretching into an 
insane grin. He had won. He’d won glory, and a future, and maybe 
love, too. Any minute now, he’d have Lucy Gray in his arms. Oh, Snow 
lands on top; it most certainly does. He forced his cheeks to relax as he 
got to the door, and straightened his jacket to help conceal the tipsy 
mess he actually was. It wouldn’t do, somehow, to let Dr. Gaul see 
him like that. 

When he opened the door to the high biology lab, he found only 
Dean Highbottom, sitting in his usual place at the table. “Close the 
door behind you.” Coriolanus obliged. Perhaps the dean wanted to 
congratulate him in private. Or even apologize for abusing him. A 
falling star might one day have need of a rising one. But as he 
approached the dean, a cold dread washed over him. There, arranged 
on the table like lab specimens, were three items: an Academy napkin 
stained with grape punch, his mother’s silver compact, and a dingy 
white handkerchief. 

The meeting could not have lasted more than five minutes. 
Afterward, as agreed, Coriolanus headed directly to the Recruitment 
Center, where he became Panem’s newest, if not shiniest, 


Peacekeeper. 


PART Ill 


“THE PEACEKEEPER” 


< 


Coriolanus leaned his temple against the glass window, trying to 
absorb any bit of coolness it might have retained. The stifling train car 
had just cleared when a half dozen of his fellow recruits piled out at 
District 9. Alone at last. He’d been on the train for twenty-four hours 
without a moment of privacy. Forward motion was often interrupted 
by long, unexplained waits. With the fitful travel and the jabbering of 
the other enlistees, he hadn’t slept a wink. Instead he’d feigned sleep 
in an attempt to dissuade anyone from talking to him. Perhaps he 
could nap now, then awake from this nightmare that seemed, by its 
tenacity, to actually be his real life. He rubbed his scabby cheek with 
the stiff, scratchy cuff of his new Peacekeeper shirt, only reinforcing 
his hopelessness. 

What an ugly place, he thought dully as the train chugged its way 
through District 9. The concrete buildings, flaking paint and misery, 
baked in the relentless afternoon sun. And how much uglier District 


12 had the likelihood of being, with its additional coat of coal dust. 


He’d never really seen much of it, just the grainy coverage of the 
square on reaping day. It didn’t look fit for human habitation. 

When he’d asked to be assigned there, the officer’s eyebrows had 
lifted in surprise. “Don’t hear that much,” he’d said, but stamped it 
through without further discussion. Apparently, not everyone had 
been following the Hunger Games, as he didn’t seem to know who 
Coriolanus was or make mention of Lucy Gray. All the better. At the 
moment, anonymity was a condition greatly to be desired. Much of 
the shame of his situation came from bearing his last name. He 
burned as he remembered his encounter with Dean Highbottom. .. . 

“Do you hear that, Coriolanus? It’s the sound of Snow falling.” 

How he hated Dean Highbottom. His bloated face floating above 
the evidence. The tip of his pen poking at the items on the lab table. 
“This napkin. Confirmed with your DNA. Used to illegally smuggle 
food from the dining hall into the arena. We picked it up as evidence 
from the crime scene after the bombing. Ran a routine check, and 
there you were.” 

“You were starving her to death,” Coriolanus had said, his voice 
cracking. 

“Rather standard procedure in the Hunger Games. But it wasn’t so 
much the feeding, which we overlooked for all the mentors, but the 
thieving from the Academy. Strictly forbidden,” said Dean 
Highbottom. “I was all for exposing you then, presenting you with 
another demerit, and disqualifying you from the Games, but Dr. Gaul 


felt you were of more use as a martyr for the cause of the wounded 


Capitol. So instead we had your recording bellowing out the anthem 
while you recuperated in the hospital.” 

“Then why bring it up now?” Coriolanus asked. 

“Only to establish a pattern of behavior.” The pen tapped the 
silver rose next. “Now, this compact. How many times did I see your 
mother pull it from her handbag to check her face? Your pretty, vapid 
mother, who’d somehow convinced herself that your father would 
give her freedom and love. Out of the frying pan and into the fire, as 
they say.” 

“She wasn’t” was all Coriolanus managed. Vapid, he meant. 

“Only her youth excused her, and, really, she seemed fated to be a 
child forever. Just the opposite of your girl, Lucy Gray. Sixteen going 
on thirty-five, and a hard thirty-five at that,” observed Dean 
Highbottom. 

“She gave you the compact?” Coriolanus’s heart dropped at the 
thought. 

“Oh, don’t blame her. The Peacekeepers had to wrestle her to the 
ground to get the thing. Naturally, we do a thorough search of the 
victors when they leave the arena.” The dean cocked his head and 
smiled. “So smart about how she poisoned Wovey and Reaper. Not 
really fair play, but what’s to be done? Sending her back to District 
Twelve seems punishment enough. She said the rat poison was all her 
idea, that the compact had just been a token.” 

“Its true,” said Coriolanus. “It was. A token of my affection. I 


don’t know anything about any poison.” 


“Let’s say I believe you, which I don’t. But let’s say I do. What, 
then, am I to make of this?” Dean Highbottom lifted the handkerchief 
with the tip of the pen. “One of the lab assistants found it in the snake 
tank yesterday morning. Everyone was baffled at first, checking their 
pockets to see if their own hankies had gone astray, because who else 
had been near the mutts? One young fellow actually claimed it, saying 
his allergies had been particularly bad and that he’d misplaced his 
handkerchief only a few days before. But just as he was offering his 
resignation, someone noticed the initials. Not yours. Your father’s. So 
delicately stitched in the corner.” 

CXS. Stitched in the same white thread as the border. Part of the 
border pattern, really, so unassuming that you’d have to look carefully 
for it, but irrefutably there. Coriolanus never bothered to examine his 
daily handkerchief; he just stuffed one in his pocket as he headed out. 
There would’ve been a slim chance of denying the charge if the 
middle name hadn’t been so distinctive. Xanthos. The only name 
Coriolanus even knew that began with an X, and the only person who 
carried it was his father. Crassus Xanthos Snow. 

There was no need to ask about the DNA test, which Dean 
Highbottom had surely run, finding both his and Lucy Gray’s 
signature. “So why haven’t you made this public?” 

“Oh, believe me, I was tempted. But the Academy, when expelling 
a student, has a tradition of offering them a lifeline,” the dean 
explained. “As an alternative to public disgrace, you may join the 


Peacekeepers by the end of the day.” 


“But ... why would I do that? I mean, why would I say I would do 
that? When I’ve just... won the Plinth Prize to the University?” he 
stammered. 

“Who knows? Because you’re that kind of patriot? Because you 
believe learning to defend your country is a better education than a 
lot of book knowledge?” Dean Highbottom began laughing. “Because 
the Hunger Games changed you, and you’re going where you can best 
serve Panem? You’re a clever young man, Coriolanus. I’m sure you'll 
think of something.” 

“But... but I... ?” His head swam with posca and adrenaline. 
“Why? Why do you hate me so much?” he blurted out. “I thought you 
were my father’s friend!” 

That sobered the dean. “I thought I was, too. Once. But it turned 
out I was only someone he liked because he could use them. Even 
now.” 

“But he’s dead now! He’s been dead for years!” cried Coriolanus. 

“He deserves to be, but he seems very much alive in you.” The 
dean made a shooing motion. “Better hurry. The office closes in 
twenty minutes. If you run, you can just make it.” 

And so he’d run, not knowing what else to do. After he’d enlisted, 
he made straight for the Citadel, hoping to throw himself on Dr. 
Gaul’s mercy. He was denied entrance, even when he pleaded infected 
stitches. The Peacekeepers phoned down to the lab and were told to 
redirect him to the hospital. One of the guards took pity on him and 


agreed to try to get his final paper to Dr. Gaul. No promises. In the 


margin, he started to scribble a note begging for her to intercede but 
felt the pointlessness of the thing. He merely wrote Thank you. For 
what, he didn’t know, but he refused to let her feed on his 
desperation. 

On the walk home, the congratulations from neighbors went like 
daggers to his heart, but the real agony began when he entered the 
apartment to the sounds of tin horns and cheers. Tigris and the 
Grandma’am had gotten out the party favors they used to celebrate 
the new year and had bought a bakery cake for the occasion. He 
attempted a weak smile, then burst into tears. And then he told them 
everything. When he finished, they both became very calm and still, 
like a pair of marble statues. 

“When do you leave?” asked Tigris. 

“Tomorrow morning,” he said. 

“When will you be back?” asked the Grandma’am. 

He couldn’t bear to say twenty years. She would never last that 
long. If he saw her again, it would be in the mausoleum. “I don’t 
know.” 

She nodded that she understood, then drew herself up in her chair. 
“Remember, Coriolanus, that wherever you go, you will always be a 
Snow. No one can ever take that from you.” 

He wondered if that wasn’t the problem. The impossibility of 
being a Snow in this postwar world. What it had driven him to do. But 
he only said, “IIl try to one day be worthy of it.” 


Tigris rose. “Come on, Coryo. lll help you pack.” He followed her 


to his room. She hadn’t cried. He knew she would try to hold in her 
tears until he left. 

“Not much to pack. They said wear old clothes to throw out. They 
provide all our uniforms, hygiene, everything. I can only bring 
personal items that fit in this.” Coriolanus pulled a box, eight by 
twelve inches, about three inches deep, from his book bag. The 
cousins stared at it a long moment. 

“What will you take?” asked Tigris. “You must make it count.” 

Photographs of his mother holding him as a toddler, of his father 
in uniform, of Tigris and the Grandma’am, of a few of his friends. An 
old compass with a brass body, which had been his father’s. The disk 
of rose-scented powder that had once lived in his mother’s silver 
compact, wrapped carefully in his orange silk scarf. Three 
handkerchiefs. Stationery with the Snow family seal. His Academy ID. 
A ticket stub from a childhood circus, stamped with an image of the 
arena. A chip of marble from the rubble of a bombing. He felt for all 
the world like Ma Plinth, with her handful of District 2 memories in 
her kitchen. 

Neither of them slept. They went up to the roof and stared out at 
the Capitol until the sun began to rise. “You were set up to fail,” said 
Tigris. “The Hunger Games are an unnatural, vicious punishment. 
How could a good person like you be expected to go along with 
them?” 

“You mustn’t say that to anyone but me. It isn’t safe,” Coriolanus 


warned her. 


“T know,” she said. “And that’s wrong, too.” 

Coriolanus showered and dressed in a fraying pair of uniform 
pants, a threadbare T-shirt, and broken flip-flops, then drank a cup of 
tea in the kitchen. He kissed the Grandma’am good-bye and took one 
last look at his home before heading out. 

In the hall, Tigris offered him an old sun hat and a pair of 
sunglasses that had been her father’s. “For the trip.” 

Coriolanus recognized a disguise when he saw it and gratefully put 
them on, tucking his curls up under the hat. They remained silent as 
they walked through the largely deserted streets to the Recruitment 
Center. Then he turned to her, his voice raspy from emotion. “I’ve left 
you with everything to deal with. The apartment, the taxes, the 
Grandma’am. I’m so sorry. If you never forgive me, I’ll understand.” 

“Nothing to forgive,” she said. “Write as soon as you can?” 

They hugged so tightly he felt several stitches pop on his arm. 
Then he marched into the Center, where three hundred or so of the 
Capitol’s citizens milled around, waiting to embark on their new life. 
He felt a flicker of hope that he might fail his physical, then a flare of 
panic at the thought. What fate awaited him if he did? A public 
dressing-down? Prison? Dean Highbottom hadn’t said, but he 
imagined the worst. He passed easily and they even took out his 
stitches without comment. The buzz cut that separated him from his 
signature curls left him feeling naked but looking so altered that the 
few curious glances he’d been receiving stopped entirely. He changed 


into spanking-new fatigues and received a duffel bag filled with 


additional clothing, a hygiene kit, a water bottle, and a packet of 
meat-spread sandwiches for the train trip. Then he signed a stack of 
forms, one of which directed them to send half of his small paycheck 
to Tigris and the Grandma’am. That provided him a scrap of 
consolation. 

Shorn, costumed, and vaccinated, Coriolanus joined a busload of 
recruits going to the train station. It was a mix of boys and girls from 
the Capitol, mostly recent graduates from secondary schools whose 
commencements fell earlier than the Academy’s. Burying himself in a 
corner of the station, he watched Capitol News, dreading a report on 
his predicament, but he saw only standard Saturday fare. Weather. 
Traffic rerouted for reconstruction. A recipe for summer vegetable 
salad. It was as if the Hunger Games had never happened. 

I’m being erased, he thought. And to erase me, they must erase the 
Games. 

Who knew of his disgrace? The faculty? His friends? No one had 
contacted him. Perhaps word had not yet gotten out. But it would. 
People would speculate. Rumors would fly. A version of the truth, 
twisted and juicy, would win the day. Oh, how Livia Cardew would 
gloat. Clemensia would get the Plinth Prize at graduation. In the 
month of summer break, they would wonder about him. A few might 
even miss him. Festus. Lysistrata, maybe. In September, his classmates 
would begin university. And he would slowly be forgotten. 

To erase the Games would be to erase Lucy Gray as well. Where 


was she? Had she really been sent back home? Was she at this 


moment returning to District 12, locked in the stinking cattle car that 
had brought her to the Capitol? That’s what Dean Highbottom had 
indicated would happen, but the ultimate decision would be Dr. 
Gaul’s, and she might not be so forgiving about their cheating. Under 
her direction, Lucy Gray might be imprisoned, or killed, or turned into 
an Avox. Or, even worse, sentenced to a life of experimentation in Dr. 
Gaul’s lab of horrors. 

Remembering he was on the train, Coriolanus shut his eyes, afraid 
tears might come. It would never do to be seen bawling like a baby, 
so he wrestled his emotions back under control. He calmed himself 
with the idea that returning Lucy Gray to District 12 might be the best 
strategy for the Capitol anyway. Perhaps, as time passed, Dr. Gaul 
might produce her again, especially if he was well out of the way. 
Have her come back and sing to kick off the Games. Her crimes, if 
there had been any, were minor compared to his. And the audience 
had loved her, hadn’t they? Perhaps her charms would save her once 
again. 

Every so often the train would stop and vomit out more recruits, 
either at their designated district or for transfer to transports headed 
north or south or wherever they’d been assigned. Sometimes he stared 
out the windows at the dead cities they passed, now abandoned to the 
elements, and wondered what the world had been like when they’d all 
been in their glory. Back when this had been North America, not 
Panem. It must have been fine. A land full of Capitols. Such a 


waste... 


Around midnight, the compartment door slid open and two girls 
bound for District 8 fell in with a half gallon of posca they’d somehow 
smuggled onto the train. Times being what they were, he spent the 
night helping them consume it and then awoke, a full day later, to 
find the train pulling into District 12 as a sultry Tuesday morning 
dawned. 

Coriolanus stumbled onto the platform with a throbbing head and 
sandpaper mouth. Following orders, he and three other recruits 
formed a line and waited an hour for a Peacekeeper who didn’t look 
much older than them to lead them out of the station and through the 
gritty streets. The heat and humidity turned the air to some state 
halfway between a liquid and a gas, and he could not confirm if he 
was inhaling or exhaling. Moisture bathed his body with an 
unfamiliar sheen that defied wiping away. Sweat didn’t dry, only 
deepened. His nose ran freely, the snot already tinged black with coal 
dust. His socks squished in his stiff boots. After an hour’s trek down 
cinder and cracked-asphalt streets lined with hideous buildings, they 
arrived at the base that was to be his new home. 

The security fence enclosing the base, as well as the armed 
Peacekeepers at the gate, made him feel less exposed. The recruits 
followed their guide through an assortment of nondescript gray 
buildings. At the barracks, the two girls peeled off while he and the 
only other new male recruit, a tall, rail-thin boy named Junius, were 
directed to a room lined with four sets of bunk beds and eight lockers. 


Two of the bunks were neatly made, and two of the remaining, placed 


near a smeared window that looked out on a dumpster, had stacks of 
bedding on them. The boys clumsily followed instructions for making 
them up, Coriolanus taking the top bunk in deference to Junius’s fear 
of heights. Then they were given the rest of the morning to shower, 
unpack, and review the Peacekeeper training manual before reporting 
to the mess for lunch at eleven. 

Coriolanus stood in the shower, head back, gulping down the 
lukewarm water that flowed from the tap. He toweled off three times 
before he accepted the dampness of his skin as a perpetual state and 
dressed in clean fatigues. After unpacking his duffel and tucking his 
precious box on the top shelf of his locker, he climbed onto his bed 
and perused the Peacekeepers’ manual — or pretended to — to avoid 
conversation with Junius, a nervous fellow who needed reassurance 
that Coriolanus was ill-positioned to give. What he wanted to say was, 
Your life is over, young Junius; accept it. But that seemed likely to bring 
on more confidences that he lacked the energy to field. The sudden 
absence of responsibility in his life — to his studies, his family, his 
very future — had sapped his strength. Even the tiniest of tasks 
seemed daunting. 

A few minutes before eleven, their bunkmates — a talkative, 
round-faced boy named Smiley and his diminutive buddy, Bug — 
collected them. The quartet headed to the mess hall, which held long 
tables lined with cracked plastic chairs. 

“Tuesday means hash!” announced Smiley. Although he’d been a 


Peacekeeper for barely a week, he seemed not only to know but to 


revel in the routine. Coriolanus collected a slotted tray featuring 
something that resembled dog food studded with potatoes. Hunger 
and the enthusiasm of his comrades emboldened him, so he tried a 
bite and found the stuff quite edible, if heavily salted. He also 
received two canned pear halves and a big mug of milk. Not elegant, 
but filling. He realized that, as a Peacekeeper, he was unlikely to 
starve. In fact, he’d be guaranteed more consistent food than he’d had 
access to at home. 

Smiley declared them all fast friends, and by the end of lunch, 
Coriolanus and Junius had been dubbed Gent and Beanpole 
respectively, one by way of table manners, the other because of his 
frame. Coriolanus welcomed the nickname, because the last thing he 
wanted to hear was the name Snow. None of his bunkmates 
commented on it, though, or made any mention of the Hunger Games. 
It turned out the enlisted only had access to one television in the rec 
room, and the reception proved so poor it was rarely on. If Beanpole 
had seen Coriolanus in the Capitol, he hadn’t made the connection 
between the Hunger Games mentor and the grunt beside him. Perhaps 
no one recognized him because no one expected him to be there. Or 
perhaps his celebrity had only extended to the Academy and a 
handful of unemployed in the Capitol who’d had time to follow the 
drama. Coriolanus relaxed enough to admit to a military father killed 
in the war, a grandmother and cousin back home, and school having 
ended the previous week. 


To his surprise, he discovered that Smiley and Bug, as well as 


many of the other Peacekeepers, were not Capitol but district-born. 
“Oh, sure,” said Smiley. “Peacekeeping’s good work if you can get it. 
Better than mill work. Lots of food, and money enough to send back 
to my folks. Some people sneer at it, but I say the war’s history and a 
job’s a job.” 

“So you don’t mind policing your own people?” Coriolanus 
couldn’t help asking. 

“Oh, these aren’t my people. My people are in Eight. They don’t 
leave you where you're born,” said Smiley with a shrug. “Sides, 
you're my family now, Gent.” 

Coriolanus got introduced to more of his new family that 
afternoon when he was assigned to kitchen detail. Under the guidance 
of Cookie, an old soldier who’d lost his left ear in the war, he stripped 
to the waist and stood over a sink of steaming water for four hours, 
scrubbing pots and hosing off meal trays. Then he was allowed fifteen 
minutes to eat another round of hash before he spent the next few 
hours mopping the mess hall and hallways. He had about half an hour 
back in the room before lights went out at nine and he collapsed into 
bed in his undershorts. 

By five the next morning, he was dressed and on the field to begin 
training in earnest. The first stage was designed to bring the new 
troops up to an acceptable level of fitness. He squatted and sprinted 
and drilled until his clothes were sodden and his heels blistered. 
Professor Sickle’s instruction served him well; she’d always insisted on 


rigorous exercise, and he’d been marching in formation since he was 


twelve. Beanpole, on the other hand, with his two left feet and 
concave chest, had the drill sergeant baiting and abusing him by 
turns. That night, as Coriolanus drifted off to sleep, he could hear the 
boy trying to stifle his sobs with his pillow. 

Blocks of training, eating, cleaning, and sleeping made up his new 
life. He moved through them mechanically but with enough 
competence to avoid reproach. If he was lucky, he had a precious half 
hour to himself before lights-out at night. Not that he accomplished 
anything. It was all he could do to shower and climb into his bunk. 

The thought of Lucy Gray tormented him, but it was tricky getting 
information about her. If he went around the base asking questions, 
someone might figure out his role in the Games, and he wanted to 
avoid that at all costs. The squad’s designated day off was Sunday, 
and their duties ended Saturday at five. As new recruits, they were 
confined to base until the following weekend. Then Coriolanus 
planned to go into town and surreptitiously ask the locals about Lucy 
Gray. Smiley said the Peacekeepers hung out at an old coal warehouse 
called the Hob, where you could purchase homemade liquor and 
maybe buy yourself some company. District 12 had a town square as 
well, the same one used for the reaping, with a smattering of small 
shops and tradespeople, but that was more active in the daytime. 

Except for Beanpole, who pulled latrine duty for his shortcomings, 
his bunkmates headed to the rec room to play poker after Saturday’s 
dinner. Coriolanus lingered over his noodles and canned meat in the 


mess hall. Since Smiley was usually distracting them all with his 


prattle, it was the first time he had to really take stock of the other 
Peacekeepers. They ranged in age from late teens to one old man who 
looked to be the Grandma’am’s contemporary. Some chatted among 
themselves, but most sat silent and depressed, sucking down their 
noodles. Was he looking, he wondered, at his future? 

Coriolanus opted to spend his evening in the barrack. Having left 
his last coins with his family, he would have no money for gambling, 
not even pocket change, until he was paid on the first of the month. 
More importantly, he had received a letter from Tigris that he wanted 
to read in private. He soaked in his solitude, free of the sight, sound, 
and smell of his comrades. All the together-ness overwhelmed him, 
used as he was to ending his days alone. He climbed onto his bunk 


and carefully opened his letter. 


My dearest Coryo, 


It’s Monday night now, and the apartment echoes with 
your absence. The Grandma’am doesn’t quite seem to 
know what’s going on, as twice today she asked when 
you’d be home and should we wait on dinner. Word of 
your situation has begun to spread. I went to see 
Pluribus, and he said he’d heard any number of rumors: 
that you’d followed Lucy Gray to Twelve out of love, 
that you’d gotten drunk celebrating and signed up on a 
dare, that you’d broken the rules and sent Lucy Gray 


gifts in the arena yourself, that you had some kind of 


falling out with Dean Highbottom. I tell people that 
you’re doing your duty to your country, just as your 


father did. 


Festus, Persephone, and Lysistrata came by this evening, 
all very concerned about you, and Mrs. Plinth called to 


get your address. I think she means to write you. 


Our apartment is officially going on the market now, 
thanks to some help from the Dolittles. Pluribus says 
that, if we can’t find a place immediately, he has a 
couple of spare rooms we can use above the club, and 
that maybe I can help out with the costumes if he 
reopens it. He’s also placed several pieces of our 
furniture with buyers. He’s been very kind and says to 
send his regards to you and Lucy Gray. Have you been 
able to see her? That’s the one sweet spot in all this 


madness. 


I’m sorry this is so short, but it’s quite late, and I’ve so 
much to do. I just wanted to get something off to remind 
you how much you are loved and missed. I know how 
hard things must be, but don’t lose hope. It has sustained 
us through the darkest of times and will do so now. 
Please write and tell us of your life in 12. It may not 


seem ideal, but who knows where it may lead? 


SLOT, 


Tigris 


Coriolanus buried his face in his hands. The Capitol making a 
mockery of the Snow name? The Grandma’am losing her mind? Their 
home a pair of shabby rooms above a nightclub, where Tigris stitched 
sequined unitards? Was this the fate of the magnificent Snow family? 

And what of him, Coriolanus Snow, future president of Panem? 
His life, tragic and pointless, unspooled before him. He saw himself in 
twenty years’ time, grown stout and stupid, the breeding beaten out of 
him, his mind atrophied to the point where nothing but base, animal 
thoughts of hunger and sleep ever crossed it. Lucy Gray, having 
languished in Dr. Gaul’s lab, would be long dead, and his heart dead 
with her. Twenty wasted years, and then what? When his time had 
been served? Why, he’d just reenlist, because even then the 
humiliation would be too great. And what would await him in the 
Capitol if he did return? The Grandma’am passed on. Tigris, middle- 
aged but seeming older, sewing away in servitude, her kindness 
transformed to insipidity, her existence a joke to those she had to 
please to earn her keep. No, he’d never return. He’d stay on in 12 like 
that old man in the mess hall had, because this was his life. No 
partner, no children, no address but the barrack. The other 
Peacekeepers, his family. Smiley, Bug, Beanpole, his band of brothers. 
And he would never see anyone from home again. Never, ever again. 


A terrible pain clutched his chest as a toxic wave of homesickness 


and despair swamped him. He felt sure he was having a heart attack 
but made no attempt to call for help, instead curling into a ball and 
pressing his face against the wall. Perhaps it was for the best. Because 
there was no out. Nowhere to run. No hope of rescue. No future that 
was not a living death. What did he have to look forward to? Hash? A 
weekly cup of gin? A promotion from dish washing to dish scraping? 
Wasn’t it better to die now, quickly, than to drag it out painfully for 
years? 

Somewhere — it seemed very distant — he heard a door bang 
shut. Footsteps came down the hall, pausing for a minute and then 
continuing toward him. He gritted his teeth, willing his heart to stop 
at once, because the world and he had finished with each other and it 
was time to part ways. But the footsteps grew louder and came to a 
halt at his door. Was the person looking at him? Was it the patrol? 
Staring at him in this mortifying position? Lapping up his 
wretchedness? He waited for the laughter, the derision, and the 
latrine duty that was sure to follow. 

Instead he heard a quiet voice say, “Is this bunk taken?” A quiet 
and familiar voice... 

Coriolanus twisted around on the bed, his eyes flying open to 
confirm what his ears already knew. Standing in the doorway, looking 
oddly at home in a set of fatigues still creased from the package, stood 


Sejanus Plinth. 


< 


Coriolanus had never been so glad to see anyone in his life. 
“Sejanus!” he burst out. He launched off his bunk, landed shakily on 
the painted concrete floor, and flung his arms around the newcomer. 

Sejanus embraced him. “This is a surprisingly warm welcome for 
the person who almost destroyed you!” 

A slightly hysterical laugh left Coriolanus’s lips, and for a moment 
he considered the accuracy of the claim. It was true, Sejanus had 
endangered his life by stealing into the arena, but it was too far a 
reach to blame him for all the rest. As aggravating as Sejanus could 
be, hed had no hand in Dean Highbottom’s vendetta against his 
father or in the handkerchief debacle. “No, no, quite the opposite.” He 
released Sejanus and examined him. Dark circles shadowed his eyes 
and he must have lost at least fifteen pounds. But on the whole he had 
a lighter air, as if the great weight he’d carried in the Capitol had 
been lifted. “What are you doing here?” 


“Hm. Let’s see. Having defied the Capitol by entering the arena, I, 


too, was on the verge of expulsion. My father went before the board 
and said he’d pay for a new gymnasium for the Academy if they 
would let me graduate and sign up for the Peacekeepers. They agreed, 
but I said I wouldn’t take the deal unless they’d let you graduate, too. 
Well, Professor Sickle really wanted a new gym, and she said what did 
it matter if we were both tied up for the next twenty years anyway?” 
Sejanus set his duffel on the floor and dug out his box of personal 
items. 

“T got to graduate?” said Coriolanus. 

Sejanus opened the box, removed a small leather folder with the 
school’s emblem, and held it out with great ceremony. 
“Congratulations. You are no longer a dropout.” 

Coriolanus flipped open the cover and found a diploma with his 
name inscribed in curlicues. The thing must have been written out in 
advance, because it even credited him with High Honors. “Thank you. 
I guess it’s stupid, but it still matters to me.” 

“You know, if you ever wanted to take the officer candidate test, it 
might matter. You need to have graduated secondary school. Dean 
Highbottom brought that up as something that should be denied you. 
He said you broke some rule in the Games to help Lucy Gray? 
Anyway, he got outvoted.” Sejanus chuckled. “He’s really wearing on 
people.” 

“So I’m not universally reviled?” said Coriolanus. 

“For what? Falling in love? I think more people pity you. A lot of 


romantics among our teachers, come to find out,” said Sejanus. “And 


Lucy Gray made quite a good impression.” 

Coriolanus grabbed his arm. “Where is she? Do you know what 
happened to her?” 

Sejanus shook his head. “They usually send the victors back to 
their districts, don’t they?” 

“Pm afraid they've done something worse to her. Because we 
cheated in the Games,” Coriolanus confessed. “I tampered with the 
snakes so they wouldn’t bite her. But all she did was use rat poison.” 

“So that was it. Well, I haven’t heard anything about that. Or 
about her being punished,” Sejanus reassured him. “The truth is, she’s 
so talented, they’ll probably want to bring her back next year.” 

“T thought of that, too. Maybe Highbottom was right about her 
being sent home.” Coriolanus sat on Beanpole’s bunk and stared down 
at the diploma. “You know, when you came in, I was weighing the 
merits of suicide.” 

“What? Now? When you’re finally free from the clutches of Dean 
Highbottom and the evil Dr. Gaul? When the girl of your dreams is in 
reach? When my ma is, at this moment, packing a box the size of a 
truck full of baked goods for you?” exclaimed Sejanus. “My friend, 
your life has just begun!” 

And then Coriolanus was laughing; they both were. “So this isn’t 
our ruin?” 

“Pd call it our salvation. Mine anyway. Oh, Coryo, if you only 
knew how glad I was to escape,” said Sejanus, turning grave. “I never 


liked the Capitol, but after the Hunger Games, after what happened to 


Marcus... I don’t know if you were kidding about suicide, but it was 
no joke to me. I had the whole thing worked out. . . .” 

“No. No, Sejanus,” said Coriolanus. “Let’s not give them the 
satisfaction.” 

Sejanus nodded thoughtfully, then wiped his face on his sleeve. 
“My father says it won’t be better here. Pll still be a Capitol boy as far 
as the districts are concerned. But I don’t care. Anything would have 
to be an improvement. What’s it like?” 

“Were either marching or mopping,” said Coriolanus. “It’s mind- 
numbing.” 

“Good. My mind could stand a little numbing. I’ve been trapped in 
these endless debates with my father,” said Sejanus. “At the moment, I 
don’t want to have a serious discussion about anything.” 

“Then you'll love our roommates.” The pain in Coriolanus’s chest 
had retreated, and he felt a glimmer of hope. Lucy Gray had, at least 
publicly, been spared punishment. Just knowing that he still had allies 
in the Capitol buoyed Coriolanus’s spirits, and Sejanus’s mention of 
becoming an officer caught his attention. Perhaps there was a way out 
of his predicament after all? Another path to influence and power? It 
was solace enough, at the moment, to know this was something Dean 
Highbottom feared. 

“Pm planning to,” said Sejanus. “I’m planning to build a whole 
new beautiful life here. One where, in my own small way, I can make 
the world a better place.” 


“That’s going to take some work,” said Coriolanus. “I don’t know 


what ever possessed me to ask for Twelve.” 

“Completely random, obviously,” Sejanus teased. 

Like a fool, Coriolanus felt himself blush. “I don’t even know how 
to find her. Or if she’ll still be interested in me, now that so much has 
changed.” 

“You're kidding, right? She’s head over heels in love with you!” 
said Sejanus. “And don’t worry, we'll find her.” 

As he helped Sejanus unpack and make his bed, Coriolanus got 
caught up on the Capitol news. His suspicions about the Hunger 
Games were right. 

“By the next morning, there was no mention of it,” said Sejanus. 
“When I went into the Academy for my review, I heard some of the 
faculty talking about what a mistake it’d been to involve the students, 
so I think that was a one-off. But I wouldn’t be surprised if we see 
Lucky Flickerman back again next year, or the post office open for 
gifts and betting.” 

“Our legacy,” said Coriolanus. 

“So it seems,” said Sejanus. “Satyria told Professor Sickle that Dr. 
Gaul is determined to keep it going somehow. A part of her eternal 
war, I guess. Instead of battles, we have the Hunger Games.” 

“Yes, to punish the districts and remind us what beasts we are,” 
said Coriolanus, focused on lining up Sejanus’s folded socks in the 
locker. 

“What?” asked Sejanus, giving him a funny look. 


“I don’t know,” said Coriolanus. “It’s like ... you know how she’s 


always torturing that rabbit or melting the flesh off something?” 

“Like she enjoys it?” asked Sejanus. 

“Exactly. I think that’s how she thinks we all are. Natural-born 
killers. Inherently violent,” Coriolanus said. “The Hunger Games are a 
reminder of what monsters we are and how we need the Capitol to 
keep us from chaos.” 

“So, not only is the world a brutal place, but people enjoy its 
brutality? Like the essay on everything we loved about the war,” said 
Sejanus. “As if it had been some big show.” He shook his head. “So 
much for not thinking.” 

“Forget it,” said Coriolanus. “Let’s just be happy that she’s out of 
our lives.” 

A downcast Beanpole appeared, reeking of urinals and bleach. 
Coriolanus introduced him to Sejanus, who, upon learning of his 
predicament, cheered him up by promising to help him with the drills. 
“Tt took me awhile to get it, too, back at school. But if I can master it, 
so can you.” 

Smiley and Bug rolled in shortly after and greeted Sejanus warmly. 
They’d been cleaned out at the poker table but were excited about the 
following Saturday’s entertainment. “There’s going to be a band at the 
Hob.” 

Coriolanus practically jumped on him. “A band? What band?” 

Smiley shrugged. “Can’t remember. But some girl will be singing. 
Supposed to be pretty good. Lucy somebody.” 


Lucy somebody. Coriolanus’s heart leaped and a grin nearly split his 


face in two. 

Sejanus grinned back at him. “Really? Well, that’s something to 
look forward to.” 

After lights-out, Coriolanus lay beaming at the ceiling. Lucy Gray 
was not only alive, she was in 12, and he would reunite with her next 
weekend. His girl. His love. His Lucy Gray. They had survived the 
dean, the doctor, and the Games somehow. After all the weeks of fear 
and yearning and uncertainty, he would wrap her in his arms and 
never let her go. Wasn’t that why he had come to 12? 

But it wasn’t just news of her. As ironic as it was, the appearance 
of that decade-long irritant, Sejanus, had helped bring him back to life 
as well. Not just with his diploma and promised cakes, or his 
reassurances that the Capitol did not scorn him, or even the hope of a 
career as an officer. Coriolanus was so relieved to have someone to 
talk to who knew his world and, more importantly, his true worth in 
that world. He felt heartened by the fact that Strabo Plinth had 
allowed Sejanus to insist his graduation be part of the deal for the 
gym, and took it as at least partial payment toward his having saved 
Sejanus’s life. Old Plinth had not forgotten him, he felt sure of that, 
and might be willing to use his wealth and power to help him in the 
future. And, of course, Ma adored him. Perhaps things were not so 
dire after all. 

With Sejanus, plus another few stragglers from the districts, they 
had enough recruits to form a full squad of twenty, and they began to 


train as such. There was no question, the Academy’s regimen had 


given Coriolanus and Sejanus a decided edge in fitness and drilling, 
although they’d had no class in firearms as they did now. The 
standard Peacekeeper’s rifle was a formidable thing, capable of firing 
a hundred rounds before reloading. To start out, the trainees focused 
on learning the weapon parts as they cleaned and assembled and 
disassembled their guns until they could do it in their sleep. 
Coriolanus had felt a little leery on the first day they did target 
practice, so bad were his memories of the war, but he found having 
his own weapon made him feel safer. More powerful. Sejanus turned 
out to be a natural marksman and soon earned the nickname Bull’s 
Eye. Coriolanus could tell the name made him uncomfortable, but he 
accepted it. 

The Monday after Sejanus’s arrival, August 1st, had brought 
disappointment. The recruits discovered they had to be in service for 
a full month to collect their first payment. Smiley was particularly 
down, as he’d been counting on his pay to cover his weekend 
revelries. Coriolanus felt his heart drop as well. How could he hope to 
see Lucy Gray without the price of a ticket? 

After three days of nothing but training, Thursday brought a 
bright spot. Ma’s packages arrived, bursting with sugary delights. 
Beanpole’s, Smiley’s, and Bug’s faces were something to behold as 
they watched the unpacking of the cherry tarts, caramel popcorn 
balls, and frosted chocolate cookies. Sejanus and Coriolanus made 
them common property in the room, cementing the brotherhood even 


further. “You know,” said Smiley through a mouthful of tart, “if we 


wanted, I bet we could trade some of this on Saturday. For gin and 
all.” It was agreed, and a certain amount of the bounty was set aside 
for the big event on Saturday night. 

Juiced by the sugar, Coriolanus got off a thank-you note to Ma and 
a letter to Tigris reassuring her that he was fine. He tried to make 
light of the grueling routine and play up the officer angle. He’d picked 
up a dog-eared manual for the officer candidate test, which had a 
sampling of questions. It was designed to measure scholastic aptitude 
and consisted primarily of verbal, math, and spatial problems, 
although he’d need to learn some basic rules and regulations for the 
one military section. If he passed, he wouldn’t be an officer, but he 
would get to begin training as one. He had a good feeling about his 
chances, if for no other reason than that many of the other recruits 
were barely literate. Their handful of classes on Peacekeeper values 
and traditions had made that clear. He told Tigris the regretful news 
about his pay but assured her that money should be coming in like 
clockwork as of September 1st. As his tongue dug the popcorn out of 
his teeth, he remembered to mention Sejanus’s arrival and advised 
that if she ever had an emergency, Ma Plinth could probably be 
counted on to help. 

On Friday morning, a tense mood infused the mess hall, and 
Smiley got the story out of a nurse he’d met at the clinic. About a 
month earlier, just around the time of the reaping, a Peacekeeper and 
two District 12 bosses had been killed by an explosion in the mines. A 


criminal investigation had led to the arrest of a man whose family had 


been known rebel leaders during the war. He was to be hanged at one 
that afternoon. The mines were shutting down for the event, and the 
workers were expected to attend. 

Green as he was, Coriolanus couldn’t see how this could involve 
him, and went about his schedule as usual. But during drill practice, 
the base commander himself, an old goat named Hoff, dropped by and 
observed for a short time. Before leaving, he exchanged a few words 
with their drill sergeant, who promptly called Coriolanus and Sejanus 
forward. “You two, you’re to go to the hanging this afternoon. 
Commander wants more bodies there for show, and he’s looking for 
recruits who can handle the drills. Report to transport at noon in 
uniform. Just follow orders, you'll be fine.” 

Coriolanus and Sejanus bolted their lunches and hurried back to 
the barrack to change. “So, was the murderer targeting the 
Peacekeeper in particular?” asked Coriolanus as he pulled on his crisp, 
white uniform for the first time. 

“I heard he was trying to sabotage coal production and 
accidentally killed the three,” said Sejanus. 

“Sabotage production? To what end?” asked Coriolanus. 

“T don’t know,” said Sejanus. “Hoping to get the rebellion going 
again?” 

Coriolanus only shook his head. Why did these people think that 
all they needed to start a rebellion was anger? They had no army, 
weapons, or authority. At the Academy, they’d been taught that the 


recent war had been incited by rebels in District 13 who were able to 


access and disseminate arms and communications to their cohorts 
around Panem. But 13 had vanished in a nuclear puff of smoke, along 
with the Snow fortune. Nothing remained, and any thought of re- 
upping the rebellion was pure stupidity. 

When they reported for duty, Coriolanus was surprised to be 
issued a gun, since his training was minimal at best. “Don’t worry, the 
major said all we need to do is stand at attention,” another recruit 
told him. They were loaded onto the bed of a truck, which rolled out 
of the base and down a road that ringed District 12. Coriolanus felt 
nervous, as this was his first real Peacekeeping assignment, but a little 
excited, too. A few weeks ago he was a schoolboy, but now he had the 
uniform, the weapon, the status of a man. And even the lowest- 
ranking Peacekeeper had power conveyed on him by his association 
with the Capitol. He stood up straighter at the thought. 

As the truck drove around the perimeter of the district, the 
buildings went from dingy to squalid. The doors and windows of the 
decrepit houses gaped in the heat. Hollow-faced women sat on 
doorsteps, watching half-naked children with sharp rib cages playing 
listlessly in the dirt. In some yards, pumps attested to the lack of 
running water, and the sagging power lines suggested that electricity 
was not guaranteed. 

It frightened Coriolanus, this level of want. He’d been broke most 
of his life, but the Snows had always worked hard to maintain 
decency. These people had given up, and some part of him blamed 


them for their plight. He shook his head. “We pour so much money 


into the districts,” he said. It must be true. People always complained 
about it in the Capitol. 

“We pour money into our industries, not into the districts 
themselves,” said Sejanus. “The people are on their own.” 

The truck rattled off the cinders and onto a dirt road that curved 
around a large field of hard-packed earth and weeds, ending at a 
wood. The Capitol had small wooded areas in some of the parks, but 
even those were fairly well manicured. Coriolanus supposed this was 
what people meant by a forest, or even a wilderness. Thick trees, 
vines, and underbrush grew every which way. The disorder alone felt 
disturbing. And who knew what sort of creatures inhabited it? The 
medley of buzzing, humming, and rustling set him on edge. What a 
racket the birds here made! 

A great tree stood at the edge of the wood, its branches stretching 
out like large, knotty arms. A noose dangled from one particularly 
horizontal appendage. Directly below it, a rough platform with two 
trapdoors had been erected. “They keep promising us a proper 
gallows,” the middle-aged major in charge said. “Until then, some of 
us rigged this. We used to just string them up from the ground, but 
then they’d take forever to die, and who’s got time for that?” 

One of the female recruits Coriolanus recognized from his walk to 
the base raised her hand tentatively. “Who are we hanging, please?” 

“Oh, some malcontent who tried to shut the mines down,” said the 
major. “They’re all malcontents, but this one’s the ringleader. Name’s 


Arlo Something-or-other. Still tracking down some of the others, 


although I don’t know where they plan on running. Nowhere to run. 
Okay, everybody out!” 

Coriolanus’s and Sejanus’s roles were largely decorative. They 
stood at parade rest in the back row of one of two squads of twenty 
that flanked the platform. Another sixty Peacekeepers spread along 
the edge of the field. Coriolanus did not like to have his back facing 
all the unkempt flora and fauna, but orders were orders. He stared 
straight ahead, across the field and into the district, from which a 
steady stream of people began to emerge. By the looks of them, many 
had come directly from the mines, for coal dust blackened their faces. 
They were joined by only slightly cleaner women and children as 
families formed in the field. Coriolanus began to feel anxious when 
scores became hundreds, and still more people arrived, pushing the 
crowd forward in an ominous fashion. 

A trio of vehicles slowly made its way down the dirt road toward 
the gallows. Out of the first, an old car that would’ve been classified 
as luxury before the war, stepped District 12’s Mayor Lipp, followed 
by a middle-aged woman with dyed blonde hair, and Mayfair, the girl 
Lucy Gray had targeted with the snake on the day of the reaping. 
They formed a tight knot at the side of the platform. Commander Hoff 
and a half dozen officers emerged from a second car, which sported a 
fluttering flag of Panem on the hood. A wave of distress went through 
the crowd as the back of the final vehicle, a white Peacekeepers’ van, 
swung open. A pair of guards jumped to the ground, then turned to 


help the prisoner out. Heavily shackled, the tall, lean man managed to 


stay upright as they escorted him to the platform. With difficulty, he 
dragged his chains up the rickety steps, and the guards positioned him 
on one of the two trapdoors. 

The major barked the order for attention, and Coriolanus’s body 
snapped into position. Technically, his gaze should have been 
forward, but he could just see the action from the corner of his eye, 
and he felt concealed in the back row. He’d never seen an execution 
in real life, only on television, and somehow he couldn’t look away. 

The crowd fell silent, and a Peacekeeper read out the list of crimes 
the condemned, Arlo Chance, had been convicted of, including the 
murder of three men. Although he tried to project, his voice seemed 
puny in the hot, damp air. When he concluded, the commander gave a 
nod to the Peacekeepers on the platform. They offered the condemned 
a blindfold, which he refused, and then put the noose around his 
neck. The man stood stoically, staring into the distance as he awaited 
his end. 

A drumroll began from the far side of the platform, triggering a 
cry from the front of the crowd. Coriolanus shifted his gaze to locate 
the source. A young woman with olive skin and long black hair rose 
above the mass into the air as a man tried to carry her off, but she 
desperately fought to move forward, shrieking, “Arlo! Arlo!” Already, 
Peacekeepers were closing in on her. 

The voice had an electrifying effect on Arlo, as his face registered 
first surprise, then horror. “Run!” he screamed. “Run, Lil! Run! 


Ru — !” The clap of the trapdoor release and subsequent twang of the 


rope cut him off mid-word, drawing a gasp from the crowd. Arlo 
dropped fifteen feet and seemed to die instantly. 

In the ominous silence that followed, Coriolanus could feel the 
sweat running down his ribs as he waited for the outcome. Would the 
people attack? Would he be expected to shoot them? Did he 
remember how the gun worked? He strained his ears for the order. 
Instead he heard the voice of the dead man ringing out eerily from the 
gently swaying corpse. 


“Run! Run, Lil! Ru — !” 


< 


A shiver ran down Coriolanus’s spine, and he could sense the rest 
of the recruits stirring. 

“Run! Run, Lil! Ru — !” 

The cry built and then seemed to engulf him, bouncing off the 
trees and attacking him from behind. For a moment, he thought he’d 
gone mad. He disobeyed orders and whipped his head around, almost 
expecting to see an army of Arlos breaking through the teeming 
woods behind him. Nothing. No one. Then the voice came again from 
a branch a few feet above him. 

“Run! Run, Lil! Ru — !” 

At the sight of the small, black bird, he flashed back to Dr. Gaul’s 
lab, where he’d seen the same creatures, perched at the top of a cage. 
Jabberjays. Why, the woods must be full of the things, mimicking 
Arlo’s death cry as they had the wails of the Avoxes in the lab. 

“Run! Run, Lil! Ru — ! Run! Run, Lil! Ru — ! Run! Run, Lil! Ru — !” 


As Coriolanus turned back to attention, he could see the disruption 


the birds had caused in the back row of recruits, although the rest of 
the Peacekeepers stood unaffected. Used to it by now, Coriolanus 
thought. He was not sure he’d ever be used to the refrain of someone’s 
death cry. Even now it was transforming, changing from Arlo’s speech 
into something almost melodic. A string of notes that mirrored the 
inflection of his voice, somehow more haunting than the words had 
been. 

Out in the crowd, the Peacekeepers had the woman, Lil, and were 
carrying her away. She gave one last wail of despair, and the birds 
picked that up as well, first as a voice and then as part of the 
arrangement. Human speech had vanished, and what remained was a 
musical chorus of Arlo and Lil’s exchange. 

“Mockingjays,” grumbled a soldier in front of him. “Stinking 
mutts.” 

Coriolanus remembered talking to Lucy Gray before the interview. 

“Well, you know what they say. The show’s not over until the 
mockingjay sings.” 

“The mockingjay? Really, I think you’re just making these things up.” 

“Not that one. A mockingjay’s a bona fide bird.” 

“And it sings in your show?” 

“Not my show, sweetheart. Yours. The Capitol’s anyway.” 

This must be what she’d meant. The Capitol’s show was the 
hanging. The mockingjay some sort of bona fide bird. Not a jabberjay. 
Different somehow. A regional thing, he supposed. But that was 


strange, because the soldier had called them mutts. His eyes strained 


to try and isolate one in the foliage. Now that he knew what he was 
looking for, he found several jabberjays. Perhaps the mockingjays 
were identical . . . but no, wait, there! A little higher up. A black bird, 
slightly larger than the jabberjays, suddenly opened its wings to 
reveal two patches of dazzling white as it lifted its beak in song. 
Coriolanus felt sure he’d spotted his first mockingjay, and he disliked 
the thing on sight. 

The birdsong unsettled the audience, and whispers turned to 
mutters, which turned to objections as the Peacekeepers shoved Lil 
into the van that had brought Arlo. Coriolanus felt afraid of this mob’s 
potential. Were they about to turn on the soldiers? Unbidden, he felt 
his thumb release the safety on his gun. 

A volley of bullets made him jump, and he looked for bleeding 
bodies but only saw one of the officers lowering his gun. The officer 
laughed and nodded to the commander, having just fired into the 
trees and caused the flock of birds to take flight. Among them, 
Coriolanus could make out dozens of pairs of flashing black-and-white 
wings. The gunfire subdued the crowd, and he could see the 
Peacekeepers waving them out, shouting, “Back to work!” and 
“Show’s over!” As the field emptied, he continued to stand at 
attention, hoping no one had noticed his jumpiness. 

When they’d all piled onto the truck to head back to the base, the 
major said, “I should’ve warned you about the birds.” 

“What are they, exactly?” asked Coriolanus. 


The major snorted. “A mistake, if you ask me.” 


“A muttation?” Coriolanus persisted. 

“Of a kind. Well, it’s them and their offspring,” the major said. 
“After the war, the Capitol let all the jabberjay mutts loose to die out, 
and they should’ve, too, all being male. But they had an eye for the 
local mockingbirds, and the birds seemed willing enough. Now we’ve 
got these mockingjay freaks to deal with. In a few years, all the 
jabberjays will be gone, and we'll see if the new ones can mate with 
one another.” 

Coriolanus did not want to spend the next twenty years listening 
to them serenade the local executions. Perhaps, if he ever did become 
an officer, he could organize a hunting party to clear the woods of 
them. But why wait? Why not suggest it now, for the recruits, as a 
form of target practice? Surely, no one liked the birds. The idea made 
him feel a bit better. He turned to Sejanus to tell him of his plan, but 
Sejanus’s face was as gloomy as it’d been in the Capitol. “What’s 
wrong?” 

Sejanus kept his eyes on the woods as the truck pulled out. “I 
really didn’t think this through.” 

“What do you mean?” asked Coriolanus. But Sejanus only shook 
his head. 

Back on base, they returned their guns and were unexpectedly free 
until supper at five. As soon as they changed back into fatigues, 
Sejanus mumbled something about writing to Ma and disappeared. 
Coriolanus found a letter one of his bunkmates must’ve picked up for 


him. He recognized the fine, spidery hand of Pluribus Bell and 


boosted himself up onto his bed to read it. Much of it confirmed what 
Tigris had already told him: that Pluribus was at the Snows’ service, 
both selling their goods and offering temporary lodgings while they 
figured out their situation. But one paragraph jumped out at 


Coriolanus. 


I’m so sorry about how all this worked out for you. 
Casca Highbottom’s punishment seems excessive, and it 
started me wondering. I think I mentioned that he and 
your father were as thick as thieves when they were at 
the University. But I do remember, toward the end there, 
a row of sorts. Very uncharacteristic of them. Casca was 
furious, saying he’d been drunk and the whole thing was 
meant to be a joke. And your father said he should be 
grateful. That he’d been doing him a favor. Your father 
left, but Casca stayed drinking until I closed. I asked 
what was wrong, but all he would say was “Like moths 
to a flame.” He was quite drunk. I supposed they 
patched it up eventually, but maybe not. They both went 
on to jobs soon after, and I didn’t see them much. People 


move on. 


This snatch of a story provided the closest explanation Coriolanus 
had gotten yet for Dean Highbottom hating him. A row. A falling out. 
He knew it hadn’t been patched up, unless another had succeeded it, 


because of the bitter way the dean had spoken about his father. What 


a petty little man Dean Highbottom was, still nursing his wounds over 
some disagreement in school. Even now, when his imagined 
persecutor was long dead. Let it go, can’t you? he thought. How can it 
still be of consequence? 

At dinner, Smiley, Beanpole, and Bug wanted to hear all about the 
hanging, and Coriolanus tried his best to satisfy them. His idea of 
using mockingjays for target practice was met with enthusiasm, and 
his bunkmates encouraged him to pitch it to the higher-ups. The only 
damper was Sejanus, who sat silent and withdrawn, pushing his tray 
of noodles out for public consumption. Coriolanus felt a twinge of 
concern. The last time Sejanus had lost his appetite, he’d lost his 
sanity as well. 

Later, as they mopped the mess hall, Coriolanus cornered him. 
“What’s bothering you? And don’t say nothing.” 

Sejanus sloshed his mop around the bucket of gray water. “I don’t 
know. I keep wondering what would’ve happened today if the crowd 
had gotten physical. Would we have had to shoot them?” 

“Oh, probably not,” said Coriolanus, although he’d wondered the 
same thing. “Probably just fired a few rounds in the air.” 

“If ’m helping to kill people in the districts, how is it any better 
than helping to kill them in the Hunger Games?” asked Sejanus. 

Coriolanus’s instincts had been right. Sejanus was sliding into 
another ethical quagmire. “What did you think it was going to be? I 
mean, what did you think you’d signed up for?” 


“I thought I could be a medic,” confessed Sejanus. 


“A medic,” Coriolanus repeated. “Like a doctor?” 

“No, that would require university training,” Sejanus explained. 
“Something more basic. Something where I could help anyone who’d 
been injured, Capitol or district, when violence breaks out. At least I 
wouldn’t do any harm. I just don’t know if I could ever kill anyone, 
Coryo.” 

Coriolanus felt a stab of annoyance. Had Sejanus forgotten that it 
was his own reckless behavior that had led to Coriolanus killing 
Bobbin? That his selfishness had robbed his friend of the luxury of 
such a statement? Then he suppressed a laugh at the thought of old 
Strabo Plinth. A munitions giant with a pacifist heir. He could imagine 
the conversations that had transpired between father and son. What a 
waste, he thought. What a waste of a dynasty. 

“What about in a war?” he asked Sejanus. “You’re a soldier, you 
know.” 

“I know. A war would be different, I guess,” said Sejanus. “But I 
would have to be fighting for something I believed in. I would have to 
believe it would make the world a better place. I’d still rather be a 
medic, but there isn’t much demand for them at the moment, it turns 
out. Without a war. They’ve got a long waiting list of people who’d 
like to be trained to work at the clinic. But even for that, you need a 
recommendation, and the sergeant doesn’t want to give me one.” 

“Why not? Sounds like a perfect fit,” said Coriolanus. 

“Because I’m too good with a gun,” Sejanus told him. “It’s true. I’m 


a crack shot. My father taught me from when I was tiny, and every 


week I had mandatory target practice. He considers it part of the 
family business.” 

Coriolanus tried to process the information. “Why didn’t you hide 
it?” 

“I thought I was. In reality, I shoot much better than I do in 
training. I tried not to stand out, but the rest of the squad is terrible.” 
Sejanus caught himself. “Not you.” 

“Yes, me.” Coriolanus laughed. “Look, I think you’re making too 
much of this. It’s not like we have a hanging every day. And if it ever 
did come to it, just shoot to miss.” 

But the words only fueled Sejanus. “And what if that means you, 
or Beanpole, or Smiley, end up dead? Because I didn’t protect you?” 

“Oh, Sejanus!” Coriolanus burst out in exasperation. “You have to 
stop overthinking everything! Imagining every worst-case scenario. 
That isn’t going to happen. We’re all going to die right here, of old 
age or excessive mopping, whatever takes us first. In the meantime, 
quit hitting the target! Or invent a problem with your eyes! Or smash 
your hand in the door!” 

“Stop being so self-indulgent, in other words,” said Sejanus. 

“Well, so dramatic anyway. That’s how you ended up in the arena, 
remember?” asked Coriolanus. 

Sejanus reacted as if Coriolanus had slapped him. After a moment, 
though, he nodded in recognition. “That’s how I almost got us both 
killed. You’re right, Coryo. Thanks. I’m going to think over what you 


said.” 


A thunderstorm ushered Saturday in, leaving behind a thick layer 
of mud and air so heavy Coriolanus felt he could wring it out like a 
sponge. He’d begun to crave the salty food Cookie favored and 
cleaned his plate at every meal. The effects of the daily training on his 
body left him stronger, more flexible, and confident. He’d be a match 
for the locals, even if they spent the day mining. Not that hand-to- 
hand combat seemed likely, not with the Peacekeepers’ arsenal, but 
he’d be ready if it happened. 

During target practice, he kept one eye on Sejanus, whose aim 
seemed a bit off. Good. A sudden reduction in his skills would draw 
attention. Another boy’s estimation of his talent might be suspect, but 
he’d never known Sejanus to brag. If he said he was a crack shot, no 
doubt he was. Which meant he’d be a real asset in the mockingjay 
slaughter if he could be persuaded to try. At the end of practice, 
Coriolanus pitched the idea to the sergeant, and felt gratified by his 
answer: “That might not be a bad idea. Kill two birds with one stone.” 

“Oh, I hope more than two,” Coriolanus joked, and the sergeant 
rewarded him with a grunt. 

After a sweltering afternoon in the laundry, shuttling fatigues in 
and out of industrial washing machines and dryers, sorting and 
folding, Coriolanus bolted down dinner and made for the showers. 
Was it his imagination, or had his beard filled in? He admired it as he 
scraped a razor over his face. Another sign that he was leaving 
boyhood behind. He towel-dried his hair, relieved that his buzz had 


become less severe. Here and there he could coax a bit of wave. 


The promise of a band at the Hob that night filled the bathroom 
with excitement. Apparently, none of the recruits had followed this 
year’s Hunger Games. 

“Some girl is going to be singing there.” 

“Yeah, from the Capitol.” 

“No, not from the Capitol. She went there for the Hunger Games.” 

“Oh. Guess she won.” 

Their faces shiny with heat and scrubbing, Coriolanus and his 
bunkmates headed out into the evening. The guard on duty told them 
to keep their heads up as they left the base. 

“T guess the five of us could take on some miners,” said Beanpole, 
glancing around. 

“Hand-to-hand, sure,” said Smiley. “But what if they had guns?” 

“They can’t have guns here, can they?” asked Beanpole. 

“Not legally. But there’s got to be some of them floating around 
out there after the war. Hidden under floorboards and in trees and 
things. You can get anything if you have money,” Smiley said with a 
knowing nod. 

“Which clearly none of them do,” said Sejanus. 

Being off the base on foot made Coriolanus edgy, too, but he put it 
down to the mess of emotions he was experiencing. He was by turns 
thrilled, terrified, cocksure, and madly insecure about seeing Lucy 
Gray. There were so many things he wanted to say to her, so many 
questions he wanted to ask, he didn’t know where he’d begin. Maybe 


with just another of those long, slow kisses . . . 


After about twenty minutes, they arrived at the Hob. A warehouse 
for coal in better days, reduced production had left it abandoned. 
Probably someone in the Capitol owned it, if not the Capitol itself, but 
no oversight or upkeep was apparent. Along the walls, a few 
makeshift stalls displayed odds and ends, much of them secondhand. 
Among the offerings, Coriolanus saw everything from candle stubs to 
dead rabbits, homemade woven sandals to cracked eyeglasses. He 
worried that in the wake of the hanging they would be treated with 
hostility, but no one seemed to give them a second glance, and much 
of the clientele had come from the base. 

Smiley, who had wheeled and dealed in the black market back 
home, strategically sacrificed one cookie to sampling, breaking it into 
a dozen pieces and allowing tastes to people he deemed likely buyers. 
Ma’s magic hit home, and between direct trade with the bootleggers 
and money from other interested parties, they ended up in possession 
of a quart bottle of clear liquid so potent the smell made their eyes 
water. 

“That’s good stuff!” Smiley promised. “They call it white liquor 
here, but it’s your basic moonshine.” They each took one swig, 
provoking a round of coughing and backslapping, and saved the rest 
for the show. 

Still in possession of a half dozen popcorn balls, Coriolanus asked 
about tickets but people waved him off. 

“They don’t take their pay ’til after,” said one man. “Better get a 


seat if you want a good one. Expecting a crowd. The girl’s back.” 


Getting a seat involved grabbing an old crate, spool, or plastic 
bucket from a pile in the corner and staking out a spot where you 
could see the stage, which was no more than an arrangement of 
wooden pallets at one end of the Hob. Coriolanus chose one against 
the wall, about halfway back. In the dusky light, Lucy Gray would be 
hard-pressed to notice him, and he wanted that. He needed time to 
decide how to approach her. Had she heard he was here? Likely not, 
for who would have told her? Around the base he was merely Gent, 
and his exploits in the Hunger Games caused no mention. 

Nightfall came and someone flipped a switch, kicking on a 
hodgepodge of lights strung together by an ancient cable and several 
suspicious-looking extension cords. Coriolanus looked for the nearest 
exit in anticipation of the inevitable fire. With the old wooden 
structure and the coal dust, a stray spark could turn it into an inferno 
in a flash. The Hob began to fill with a mix of Peacekeepers and 
locals, mostly men but with a fair number of women as well. There 
must’ve been close to two hundred assembled in all when a skinny 
boy of about twelve, in a hat adorned with colorful feathers, came out 
and set up a single microphone on the stage, running a cord to a black 
box off to the side. He dragged a wooden crate behind the mic and 
retreated to an area blocked with a raggedy blanket. His appearance 
had set off something in the crowd, and people began to clap in 
unison, in a manner that proved contagious. Even Coriolanus found 
his hands joining in. Voices called for the show to begin, and just 


when it seemed it never would, the side of the blanket flipped back, 


and out stepped a little girl in a pink swirl of a dress. She gave a 
curtsy. 

The audience cheered as the girl began to beat on a drum that 
hung from a strap around her neck and to dance her way to the 
microphone. “Whoo, Maude Ivory!” hooted a Peacekeeper near 
Coriolanus, and he knew this was the cousin Lucy Gray had 
mentioned, the one who could remember every song she heard. It was 
a big claim for such a young thing; she couldn’t be more than eight or 
nine. 

She hopped up on the box set behind the microphone and gave the 
audience a wave. “Hey, everybody, thanks for coming out tonight! Is 
it hot enough for you?” she said in a sweet, squeaky voice, and the 
crowd laughed. “Well, we’re planning on heating things up a sight 
more. My name’s Maude Ivory, and I’m pleased to introduce the 
Covey!” The crowd applauded, and she bobbed curtsies until they 
quieted enough for her to start the introductions. “On mandolin, Tam 
Amber!” A tall, rawboned young man in a feathered hat came from 
behind the curtain, strumming an instrument similar to a guitar but 
with a body more like a teardrop. He walked straight to Maude Ivory’s 
side, not acknowledging the audience in any way, his fingers moving 
easily over the strings. Next, the boy who’d set up the microphone 
appeared with a violin. “That’s Clerk Carmine on fiddle!” announced 
Maude Ivory, as he played his way across the stage. “And Barb Azure 
on bass!” Hauling out an instrument that looked like a huge version of 


the fiddle, a willowy young woman in an ankle-length, checkered blue 


dress gave the crowd a shy wave as she joined the others. “And now, 
fresh from her engagement in the Capitol, the one and only Lucy Gray 
Baird!” 

Coriolanus held his breath as she spun onto the stage, guitar in 
one hand, the ruffles of her acid-green dress flaring out around her, 
her features brightened with makeup. The crowd rose to their feet. 
She ran lightly over as Tam Amber scooted Maude Ivory’s box back 
and took center stage before the mic. “Hey there, District Twelve, did 
you miss me?” She grinned as they roared in response. “I bet you 
never expected to lay eyes on me again, and that goes both ways. But 
I’m back. I sure am back.” 

Encouraged by his mates, a Peacekeeper sheepishly approached 
the stage and handed her a half-filled bottle of white liquor. 

“Well, what’s this? Is that for me?” she asked, receiving the bottle. 
The Peacekeeper made a gesture indicating it was from the group. 
“Now, you all know I stopped drinking when I was twelve!” A big 
laugh came from the audience. “What? I did! Of course, there’s no 
harm in having some on hand for medicinal purposes. Thank you 
kindly, I do appreciate it.” She considered the bottle, then shot the 
audience a knowing look and took a swig. “To clear my pipes!” she 
said innocently in response to the howls. “You know, as bad as you 
treat me, I don’t know why I keep coming back. But I do. Reminds me 
of that old song.” 

Lucy Gray strummed her guitar once and looked around at the rest 


of the Covey, who were gathered in a close half circle around the mic. 


“Okay, pretty birds. A one, a two, a one two three and...” The music 
began, bright and upbeat. Coriolanus felt his heel tapping out the beat 


even before Lucy Gray leaned into the mic. 


My heart’s stupid and that’s not maybe. 
Can’t blame Cupid, he’s just a baby. 
Shoot it, boot it, execute it, 


Still comes a-crawling to you-hoo. 


Heart’s gone funny, it won’t hear reason. 
You’re like honey, you bring the bees in. 
Sting it, wring it, give a fling, it 


Still comes a-crawling to you. 


I wish it mattered that 
You chose to smash it up. 
How come you shattered that 


Thing I love with? 


Did you feel flattered that 
You could just trash it up? 
That’s why you battered that 
Thing I love with. 


Lucy Gray relinquished the mic, allowing Clerk Carmine to step up 
and do some fancy finger work on his fiddle, embellishing the melody, 


while the others backed him up. Coriolanus couldn’t take his eyes off 


Lucy Gray’s face, lit up like he’d never seen it before. That’s her when 
she’s happy, he thought. She’s beautiful! Beautiful in a way anyone 
could see, not just him. That could be a problem. Jealousy pricked his 
heart. But no. She was his girl, wasn’t she? He remembered the song 
shed sung in the interview, about the guy who’d broken her heart, 
and examined the Covey for a likely suspect. There was only Tam 
Amber with the mandolin, but there were no sparks flying between 
them. One of the locals maybe? 

The crowd applauded Clerk Carmine, and Lucy Gray took over 


again. 


Trapped my ticker but haven’t freed it. 
People snicker at how you treat it. 
Snare it, tear it, strip it bare, it 


Still comes a-crawling to you-hoo. 


Heart’s been jumping just like a rabbit. 
Blood keeps pumping but that’s just habit. 
Drain it, pain it, I’m insane, it 


Still comes a-crawling to you. 


Burn it, spurn it, don’t return it, 
Break it, bake it, overtake it, 
Wreck it, deck it, what the heck, it 


Still comes a-crawling to you. 


After the applause and a fair amount of hollering, the audience 


settled down to listen some more. 

As Coriolanus knew from helping Lucy Gray rehearse in the 
Capitol, the Covey had a wide and varied repertoire, and played 
straight instrumental numbers as well. At times, some of the members 
would exit, disappearing behind the blanket to leave the stage to a 
pair or a solo performer. Tam Amber proved something of a standout 
on his mandolin, riveting the crowd with his lightning-fast fingering 
while his face remained expressionless and distant. Maude Ivory, a 
crowd favorite, piped out a darkly funny song about a miner’s 
daughter who drowned, and invited the audience members to join in 
the chorus, which, surprisingly, many of them did. Or maybe it was 


not that surprising, given that most were companionably drunk now. 


Oh, my darling, oh, my darling, 
Oh, my darling, Clementine, 
You are lost and gone forever. 


Dreadful sorry, Clementine. 


Some of the numbers bordered on unintelligible, with un-familiar 
words that Coriolanus struggled to get the gist of, and he remembered 
Lucy Gray saying that they were from another time. During these in 
particular, the five Covey seemed to turn in on themselves, swaying 
and building complicated harmonies with their voices. Coriolanus 
didn’t care for it; the sound unsettled him. He sat through at least 
three songs of this kind before he realized it reminded him of the 


mockingjays. 


Fortunately, most of the songs were newer and more to his liking, 


and they finished up with the one he recognized from the reaping .. . 


No, sir, 
Nothing you can take from me is worth dirt. 
Take it, ’cause I’d give it free. It won’t hurt. 


Nothing you can take from me was ever worth keeping! 


... the irony of which was not lost on the audience. The Capitol 
had tried to take everything from Lucy Gray, and it had utterly failed. 

When the applause died out, she gave Maude Ivory a nod. The girl 
ran behind the blanket and appeared carrying a basket woven with 
cheerful ribbons. 

“Thank you kindly,” said Lucy Gray. “Now, you all know how this 
works. We don’t charge for tickets, because sometimes hungry people 
need music the most. But we get hungry, too. So if you’d like to 
contribute, Maude Ivory will be around with the basket. We thank 
you in advance.” 

The four older Covey softly played while Maude Ivory scampered 
around the crowd, collecting coins in her basket. Between the five of 
them, Coriolanus and his bunkmates only had a few coins, which 
didn’t seem nearly enough, though Maude Ivory thanked them with a 
polite curtsy. 

“Hold on,” said Coriolanus. “Do you like sweets?” He lifted a flap 
of the brown paper package with the last of the popcorn balls so 


Maude Ivory could take a peek, and her eyes widened with delight. 


Coriolanus set them all in the basket, as they’d been earmarked for 
the tickets anyway. If he knew Ma, more boxes were on their way. 

Maude Ivory did a little pirouette in thanks, hurried through the 
rest of the audience, and then ran up onstage to tug on Lucy Gray’s 
skirt, showing her the treats in the basket. Coriolanus could see Lucy 
Gray’s lips make an ooh sound and ask where they’d come from. He 
knew this was the moment, and he found himself taking a step out of 
the shadows. His body tingled in anticipation as Maude Ivory lifted 
her hand to point him out. What would Lucy Gray do? Would she 
acknowledge him? Ignore him? Would she even recognize him, made 
over as he was as a Peacekeeper? 

Her eyes followed Maude Ivory’s finger until they landed on him. 
A look of confusion crossed her face, then recognition, and then joy. 
She shook her head in disbelief and laughed. “Okay, okay, everybody. 
This is... this is maybe the best night of my life. Thanks to 
everybody here for showing up. How about one more song to send 
you off to sleep? You might’ve heard me do this before, but it took on 
a whole new meaning for me in the Capitol. Guess you'll figure out 
why.” 

Coriolanus moved back to his seat — she knew where to find him 
now — to listen and to savor their actual reunion, which was only a 


song away. His eyes teared up when she began the song from the zoo. 


Down in the valley, valley so low, 
Late in the evening, hear the train blow. 


The train, love, hear the train blow. 


Late in the evening, hear the train blow. 


Coriolanus felt an elbow nudge his ribs and looked over to see 
Sejanus beaming at him. It was nice, after all, to have someone else 
who knew the significance of the song. Someone who knew what 


they’d been through. 


Go build me a mansion, build it so high, 
So I can see my true love go by. 
See him go by, love, see him go by. 


So I can see my true love go by. 


That’s me, Coriolanus wanted to tell people around him. I’m her 


true love. And I saved her life. 


Go write me a letter, send it by mail. 
Bake it and stamp it to the Capitol jail. 
Capitol jail, love, to the Capitol jail. 


Bake it and stamp it to the Capitol jail. 
Should he say hello first? Or just kiss her? 


Roses are red, love; violets are blue. 


Birds in the heavens know I love you. 
Kiss her. Definitely, just kiss her. 


Know I love you, oh, know I love you, 


Birds in the heavens know I love you. 


“Good night, everybody. Hope we see you next week, and until 
then, keep singing your song,” said Lucy Gray, and the whole Covey 
took one final bow. As the audience applauded, she smiled at 
Coriolanus. He began to move toward her, stepping around people 
collecting their makeshift seats to pile back in the corner. A few of the 
Peacekeepers had gathered around her, and she chatted with them, 
but he could see her eyes darting his way. He paused to give her time 
to extricate herself and just to bask in the sight of her, glowing and in 
love with him. 

The Peacekeepers were bidding her good night, starting to back 
away. Coriolanus smoothed his hair and moved in. They were only 
about fifteen feet apart when a disturbance in the Hob, the sound of 
glass breaking and voices protesting, caused him to turn his head. A 
dark-haired young man around his age, dressed in a sleeveless shirt 
and pants ripped off at the knees, pushed through the thinning crowd. 
His face gleamed with sweat, and his movements suggested he’d 
exceeded his white liquor limit some time ago. Over one shoulder 
hung a boxy instrument with part of a piano keyboard along one side. 
Behind him trailed the mayor’s daughter, Mayfair, taking care not to 
brush against the patrons, her mouth tight with disdain. Coriolanus 
shifted his gaze to the stage, where a cold, fixed stare had replaced 
Lucy Gray’s eager expression. The other members of the band drew in 
around her protectively, their showtime levity draining away into a 


mix of raw anger and sadness. 


It’s him, Coriolanus thought with dead certainty, his stomach 


twisting unpleasantly. It’s the lover from the song. 


< 


Maude Ivory planted her wispy frame squarely in front of Lucy 
Gray. She scrunched her face and balled her hands into fists. “You get 
out of here, Billy Taupe. None of us want you anymore.” 

Billy Taupe rocked slightly as he surveyed the group. “Less want 
than need, Maude Ivory.” 

“Don’t need you neither. Go on and get. And take your weasel girl 
with you,” ordered Maude Ivory. Lucy Gray encircled her with her 
arm, pressing her hand against the little girl’s chest, either to soothe 
or restrain her. 

“You’re all sounding thin. You’re sounding thin,” slurred Billy 
Taupe, and one hand slapped his instrument. 

“We can do without you, Billy Taupe. You made your choice. Now 
leave us be,” said Barb Azure, her quiet voice underlaid with steel. 
Tam Amber said nothing but gave a small nod of assent. 

Pain flashed across Billy Taupe’s face. “Is that how you feel, CC?” 


Clerk Carmine curled his fiddle in close to his body. 


Although the Covey varied in complexion, hair, and features, 
Coriolanus noticed a distinct resemblance between these two. 
Brothers, maybe? 

“You can come with me. We’d do all right, we two,” Billy Taupe 
pleaded. But Clerk Carmine stood his ground. “All right, then. Don’t 
need you. Never needed any of you anyway. Never will. Always did 
better on my own.” 

A couple of Peacekeepers began to close in on him. The one who’d 
given Lucy Gray the bottle of white liquor laid a hand on his arm. 
“Come on, now, show’s over.” 

Billy Taupe jerked away from his touch and then gave him a 
drunken shove. In an instant, the sociable mood in the Hob changed. 
Coriolanus could feel the tension, sharp as a knife. Miners who’d 
either ignored him or given him nods over their bottles became 
belligerent. The Peacekeepers straightened up, suddenly alert, and he 
found his own body almost standing at attention. As a half dozen 
Peacekeepers moved in on Billy Taupe, he felt the miners surge 
forward. He was readying himself for the brawl that was sure to 
follow, when someone pulled the plug on the lights, sending the Hob 
into blackness. 

Everything froze for an instant, then chaos erupted. A fist caught 
Coriolanus’s mouth, sending his own fists into action. He struck out 
arbitrarily, focused only on securing his own circle of safety. The 
same animal wildness he’d experienced when the tributes had hunted 


him down in the arena swept over him. Dr. Gaul’s voice echoed in his 


ears. “That’s mankind in its natural state. That’s humanity undressed.” 
And here was naked humanity again, and here again he was a part of 
it. Punching, kicking, his teeth bared in the darkness. 

A horn outside the Hob blared repeatedly, and truck headlights 
flooded the area by the door. Whistles blew, and voices shouted for 
the dispersal of the crowd. People lurched toward the exit. Coriolanus 
fought the wave, trying to locate Lucy Gray, but then decided the best 
chance of finding her would be out front. He jostled his way through 
the bodies, still throwing the occasional punch, and spilled out into 
the night air, where the locals took flight and the Peacekeepers 
gathered in a loose bunch, making only a weak show of pursuit. Most 
of them had not even been on duty, and there was no organized unit 
to address the spontaneous eruption. In the dark, nobody was even 
sure who they’d been fighting. Better to let it lie. Coriolanus found it 
unnerving, though; unlike at the hanging, the miners had fought back. 

Sucking on a split lip, he positioned himself to watch the door, but 
the last stragglers wandered out without any sign of Lucy Gray, the 
Covey, or even Billy Taupe. He felt frustrated at having been so close 
but unable to talk to her. Was there another exit to the Hob? Yes, he 
remembered a door by the stage, which must have allowed them to 
slip out. Mayfair Lipp had not been so fortunate. She stood flanked by 
Peacekeepers, not under arrest but not free to go either. 

“Tve done nothing wrong. You’ve no right to hold me,” she spat at 
the soldiers. 


“Sorry, miss,” said a Peacekeeper. “For your own protection, we 


can’t let you go home alone. Either you let us escort you or we call 
your father for further instructions.” 

The mention of her father shut Mayfair up but did not improve her 
attitude. She seethed, her lips pressed into a thin, mean line that said 
someone would pay, just give her time. 

There did not seem to be much enthusiasm for the task of taking 
her home, and Coriolanus and Sejanus found themselves recruited for 
the job, either because they’d made a good showing at the hanging or 
because they were both relatively sober. Two officers and three other 
Peacekeepers made up the rest of the party. “At this hour, what with 
the climate, its probably better to be on the safe side,” one officer 
said. “It’s not far.” 

As they wove through the streets, their boots grinding against the 
grit, Coriolanus squinted into the darkness. Streetlights illuminated 
the Capitol, but here he had to rely on the sporadic flickers from 
windows and the pale beams of the moon. Unarmed, without even the 
protection of his white uniform, he felt vulnerable and stuck close to 
the group. The officers had guns; hopefully, that would keep 
assailants at bay. He remembered the Grandma’am’s words. “Your own 
father used to say those people only drank water because it didn’t rain 
blood. You ignore that at your own peril, Coriolanus.” Were they out 
there now, watching and waiting for a chance to quench their thirst? 
He missed the safety of the base. 

Fortunately, after only a few short blocks, the streets opened up 


onto a deserted square, which he realized was the location of the 


annual reaping. A few unevenly spaced floodlights helped him 
navigate the cobblestones under his feet. 

“I can get home fine from here,” said Mayfair. 

“We're in no hurry,” one of the officers told her. 

“Why don’t you just leave me alone?” snapped Mayfair. 

“Why don’t you stop running around with that good-for-nothing?” 
suggested the officer. “Trust me, that won’t end well.” 

“Oh, mind your own business,” she retorted. 

They made a diagonal cross, left the square, and followed a freshly 
paved road to the next street over. The party drew to a halt at a large 
house that might count for a mansion in District 12 but would be 
unremarkable in the Capitol. Through the windows, wide open in the 
August heat, Coriolanus caught glimpses of well-lit, furnished rooms 
in which humming electric fans fluttered the curtains. His nose picked 
up a whiff of the evening’s dinner — ham, he thought — causing his 
mouth to water slightly and thinning out the bloody taste from his lip. 
Maybe it was just as well he’d missed Lucy Gray; his lips were in no 
shape for a kiss. 

As one of the officers laid a hand on the gate, Mayfair pushed past 
him, darted up the path, and slipped into the house. 

“Should we tell her parents?” asked the other. 

“What’s the point?” said the first. “You know how the mayor is. 
Somehow her traipsing around at night will be our fault. I can do 
without a lecture.” 


The other muttered agreement, and the party headed back across 


the square. As Coriolanus followed, a soft, mechanical wheeze caught 
his attention, and he turned to the shadowy bushes that lined the side 
of the house. He could just make out a figure standing motionless in 
the gloom, back pressed against the wall. A light on the second floor 
flipped on, and the yellow glow extending down revealed Billy Taupe, 
nose bloodied, scowling directly at him. He held his instrument, the 
source of the wheeze, against his chest. 

Coriolanus’s lips parted to alert the others, but something held his 
tongue. What was it? Fear? Indifference? Uncertainty as to how Lucy 
Gray would react? The band had made their position clear when it 
came to his rival, and yet he didn’t know how they would take 
Coriolanus’s ratting him out, possibly landing him in jail. What if it 
made Billy Taupe a sympathetic character, someone they would rally 
around and forgive? He could tell that the Covey loyalties ran deep. 
Then again, perhaps they would welcome it? Particularly Lucy Gray, 
who might be very interested to know that her old flame had run to 
the mayor’s daughter’s house for solace. What had he done to be 
ousted from all things Covey, band and home? He remembered the 


final words to her song, her ballad, from the interview. 


Too bad I’m the bet that you lost in the reaping. 


Now what will you do when I go to my grave? 


Surely, the answer lay there. 
Mayfair appeared and closed the window. Then she drew the 


curtain, blocking the light and concealing Billy Taupe. The bushes 


rustled, and the moment had passed. 

“Coryo?” Sejanus had returned for him. “You coming?” 

“Sorry, just lost in thought,” said Coriolanus. 

Sejanus nodded to the house. “It reminds me of the Capitol.” 

“You don’t say home,” Coriolanus pointed out. 

“No. For me, that will always be District Two,” Sejanus confirmed. 
“But it doesn’t matter. I’ll probably never see either place again.” 

As they walked back, Coriolanus wondered about his own odds of 
seeing the Capitol again. Before Sejanus came, he’d thought they were 
zero. But if he could return as an officer, maybe even a war hero, 
things might be different. Of course, then he’d need a war to excel in, 
just as Sejanus needed one in order to be a medic. 

Coriolanus’s shoulders relaxed when the gates of the base closed 
behind him. He washed his face and crawled into his bunk above 
Beanpole’s inebriated snores. His pulse beat in his swollen lip as he 
replayed the evening. It had all gone like a dream — seeing Lucy 
Gray, hearing her sing, her joy at the sight of him — until Billy Taupe 
had showed up and spoiled the reunion. It was just another reason to 
hate Billy Taupe, although seeing the Covey’s rejection of him was 
deeply satisfying. It confirmed that Lucy Gray belonged to him. 

Sunday breakfast brought the bad news that, because of the 
previous evening’s altercation, no soldier was to leave the base alone. 
The higher-ups were even considering placing the Hob off-limits. 
Smiley, Bug, and Beanpole, although hungover and bruised from the 


night before, bemoaned the state of things, having nothing to look 


forward to if their Saturday outings were canceled. Sejanus only cared 
because Coriolanus cared, recognizing that this was just one more 
hurdle to seeing Lucy Gray. 

“Maybe she'll visit you here?” he suggested as they cleared their 
trays. 

“Can she do that?” Coriolanus asked, but then hoped she wouldn’t, 
even if she could. He had little unscheduled time, and where would 
they even be allowed to talk? Through the fence? How would that be 
viewed? Caught up as he had been in the romance of the previous 
evening, he’d been planning to greet her publicly with a kiss, but in 
hindsight, that would’ve brought on a barrage of questions from his 
bunkmates, and doubtless raised a few eyebrows among the officers. 
Their whole history, including his forced enlistment, would come out, 
and with it his cheating in the Games. In addition, given the troubles 
between the locals and the Peacekeepers, it would be wise to keep the 
relationship private. Whispering through the fence might encourage 
rumors that he was a rebel sympathizer or, even worse, a spy. No, if 
they were going to meet, he would have to go to her. Secretly. Today 
would be a rare opportunity to track her down, but he’d need a buddy 
to leave the base. 

“I think we’d better keep things between us a secret. She might get 
in trouble if she came here. Sejanus, did you have plans today, or —” 
he began. 

“She lives in a place called the Seam,” said Sejanus. “Near the 


woods.” 


“What?” said Coriolanus. 

“T asked one of the miners last night. Very casually.” Sejanus 
smiled. “Don’t worry, he was too drunk to remember. And yes, Pd be 
happy to go with you.” 

Sejanus told their bunkmates they were heading into town to see if 
they could swap a pack of Capitol chewing gum for letter paper, but 
the ruse proved unnecessary, as all the mates took their abused bodies 
back to their bunks right after breakfast. Coriolanus wished he had 
money for a gift of some kind, but he had nary a cent. As they passed 
the mess hall on the way out, his eyes fell on the ice machine, and he 
had an idea. In this hot weather, the soldiers were permitted to take 
the ice freely for their drinks, or to cool off. Rubbing cubes over their 
bodies provided a little relief in the sauna of a kitchen. 

Cookie, who he’d won over with his diligent dish washing, gave 
Coriolanus an old plastic bag. The day being so hot, he agreed it 
would be all right to take some ice on their outing to ward off 
heatstroke. Coriolanus didn’t know if the Covey had a freezer, but by 
the looks of the houses he’d passed on his way to the hanging, he 
thought that might be a luxury few could afford. Anyway, the ice was 
free, and he didn’t want to go empty-handed. 

They signed out at the gate, where the guard cautioned them to be 
careful, and walked off in what they remembered to be the general 
direction of the town square. Coriolanus felt apprehensive. With the 
mines shut down for the day, though, a hush lay over the district, and 


the few people they passed ignored them. Only a small bakery stood 


open in the town square, its doors propped wide to allow a breeze to 
temper the heat of the ovens. The owner, a beet-faced woman, had 
little interest in providing directions to nonpaying customers, so 
Sejanus bartered his fancy chewing gum for a loaf of bread. Relenting, 
she took them out on the square and pointed at the street they were to 
follow to the Seam. 

Beyond the town center, the Seam sprawled out for miles, the 
regular streets quickly dissolving into a web of smaller, unmarked 
lanes that rose up and then petered out for no discernible reason. 
Some boasted rows of worn, identical houses; others had makeshift 
structures it would be generous to call shacks. Many homes were so 
shored up, patched up, or broken down that their original framework 
was nothing but a memory. Many others had been abandoned and 
scavenged for their parts. 

With no grid, no landmark of note, Coriolanus lost his bearings 
almost immediately, and his unease returned. Once in a while, they’d 
pass someone sitting on their stoop or in the shade of their homes. 
None of them looked the least bit friendly. The only sociable creatures 
were the gnats, whose fascination with his injured lip required 
constant shooing. As the sun beat down on them, condensation from 
the melting bag of ice left a splotch on his pant leg. Coriolanus’s 
enthusiasm began dissolving as well. The intoxication he’d 
experienced the night before in the Hob, the heady mix of liquor and 
yearning, seemed like a feverish dream now. “Maybe this was a bad 


idea.” 


“Really?” asked Sejanus. “I’m pretty sure we’re headed in the right 
direction. See the trees over there?” 

Coriolanus made out a fringe of green in the distance. He trudged 
along thinking with fondness of his bunk and remembering that 
Sunday meant fried baloney and potatoes. Maybe he was not cut out 
to be a lover. Maybe he was more of a loner at heart. Coriolanus 
Snow, more loner than lover. One thing about Billy Taupe, he reeked 
of passionate feelings. Is that what Lucy Gray wanted? Passion, music, 
liquor, moonlight, and a wild boy who embraced them all? Not a 
perspiring Peacekeeper showing up at her door on a Sunday morning 
with a split lip and a sagging bag of ice. 

He gave over the lead to Sejanus, following him up and down 
cinder paths without comment. Eventually, his companion would 
grow tired, and they could go back and catch up on their letter 
writing. Sejanus, Tigris, his friends, the faculty, all of them had been 
dead wrong about him. He’d never been motivated by love or 
ambition, only a desire to get his prize and a nice, quiet bureaucratic 
job pushing papers around and leaving him plenty of time to attend 
tea parties. Cowardly and... what had Dean Highbottom called her? 
Oh, yes, vapid. Vapid, like his mother. What a disappointment he’d 
have been to Crassus Xanthos Snow. 

“Listen,” said Sejanus, catching his arm. 

Coriolanus paused and lifted his head. A high-pitched voice 
pierced the morning air with a melancholy tune. Maude Ivory? They 


made for the source of the music. At the end of a path at the edge of 


the Seam, a small wooden house tilted at a precarious angle, like a 
tree in a stiff wind. The dirt patch of a front yard was deserted, so 
they picked their way around the clumps of wildflowers, in various 
states of bloom and decay, that appeared to have been transplanted 
without much rhyme or reason. When they reached the back of the 
house, they discovered Maude Ivory sitting on a makeshift stoop in an 
old dress two sizes too big for her. She was cracking nuts on a cinder 
block with a rock, beating time to her song. 

“Oh, my darling” — crack — “Oh, my darling” — crack — “Oh, 
my darling, Clementine!” — crack. She looked up and grinned when 
she saw them. “I know you!” Brushing the stray nutshells from her 
frock, she ran into the house. 

Coriolanus wiped his face on his sleeve, hoping his lip wouldn’t 
look too bad when Lucy Gray appeared. Instead Maude Ivory came 
out with a sleepy Barb Azure, who had twisted her hair up in a hasty 
knot. Like Maude Ivory, she’d changed her costume for a dress you 
might see on anyone in District 12. “Good morning,” she said. “You 
looking for Lucy Gray?” 

“He’s her friend from the Capitol,” Maude Ivory reminded her. 
“The one who introduced her on the television, only he’s near bald 
now. He gave me the popcorn balls.” 

“Well, we certainly enjoyed those and appreciate all you did for 
Lucy Gray,” said Barb Azure. “I expect you’ll find her down in the 
Meadow. That’s where she goes early to work, so as not to disturb the 


neighbors.” 


“Pll show you. Let me!” Maude Ivory hopped off the porch and 
took Coriolanus’s hand, as if they were old friends. “It’s this way.” 

With no younger siblings or other relatives, Coriolanus had little 
experience with kids, but it made him feel special, the way she’d 
attached herself to him, the cool little hand pressed trustingly in his. 
“So, you saw me on the television?” 

“Just the one night. It was clear and Tam Amber used a lot of foil. 
Usually, we can’t get anything but static, but it’s special we even have 
a television,” explained Maude Ivory. “Most don’t. Not that there’s 
much to watch but that boring old news anyway.” 

Dr. Gaul could go on all she wanted about engaging people in the 
Hunger Games, but if practically no one in the districts had a working 
television, the impact would be confined to the reaping, when 
everyone gathered in public. 

While they walked toward the woods, Maude Ivory rattled on 
about their show the night before and the fight that followed. “Sorry 
you got punched,” she said, pointing to his lip. “That’s Billy Taupe, 
though. Where he goes, trouble follows.” 

“Is he your brother?” asked Sejanus. 

“Oh, no, he’s a Clade. Him and Clerk Carmine are brothers. The 
rest of us are all Baird cousins. The girls, I mean. And Tam Amber’s a 
lost soul,” said Maude Ivory matter-of-factly. 

So Lucy Gray didn’t have a monopoly on the strange manner of 
talking. It must be a Covey thing. “A lost soul?” asked Coriolanus. 


“Sure. The Covey found Tam Amber when he was just a baby. 


Somebody left him in a cardboard box on the side of the road, so he’s 
ours. Joke’s on them, too, because he’s the finest picker alive,” Maude 
Ivory declared. “Not much of a talker, though. Is that ice?” 

Coriolanus swung the diminishing clump of cubes. “What’s left of 
it.” 

“Oh, Lucy Gray will like that. We’ve got a fridge, but the freezer’s 
long broke,” said Maude Ivory. “Seems fancy to have ice in 
summertime. Like flowers in wintertime. Rare.” 

Coriolanus agreed. “My grandmother grows roses in winter. People 
make a big fuss over them.” 

“Lucy Gray said you smelled like roses,” said Maude Ivory. “Is 
your whole house full of them?” 

“She grows them on the roof,” Coriolanus told her. 

“The roof?” giggled Maude Ivory. “That’s a silly place for flowers. 
Don’t they slide off?” 

“It’s a flat roof, up very high. With lots of sunlight,” he said. “You 
can see the whole Capitol from there.” 

“Lucy Gray didn’t like the Capitol. They tried to kill her,” said 
Maude Ivory. 

“Yes,” he acknowledged. “It couldn’t have been very nice for her.” 

“She said you were the only good thing about it, and now you’re 
here.” Maude Ivory gave his hand a tug. “You’re going to stay here, 
right?” 

“That’s the plan,” said Coriolanus. 


“Tm glad. I like you, and that will make her happy,” she said. 


By this time, the three had reached the edge of a large field that 
dipped down to the woods. Unlike the weedy expanse in front of the 
hanging tree, this one had clean, fresh, high grass and swaths of 
bright wildflowers. “There she is, with Shamus.” Maude Ivory pointed 
to a lone figure on a rock. Wearing a dress of her namesake color, 
Lucy Gray sat with her back to them, her head bent over her guitar. 

Shamus? Who was Shamus? Another member of the Covey? Or 
had he misread Billy Taupe’s role in her life, and Shamus was the 
lover? Coriolanus put a hand above his eyes to shield them from the 
sunlight but could make out only her figure. “Shamus?” 

“She’s our goat. Don’t be fooled by the boy’s name; she can give a 
gallon a day when she’s fresh,” said Maude Ivory. “We’re trying to 
skim enough cream for butter, but it takes forever.” 

“Oh, I love butter,” said Sejanus. “That reminds me, I forgot to 
give you this bread. Did you have your breakfast already?” 

“Its a fact, I didn’t,” said Maude Ivory, eyeing the loaf with 
interest. 

Sejanus handed it over. “What do you say we head back to the 
house and break into this now?” 

Maude Ivory tucked the bread under her arm. “What about Lucy 
Gray and this one?” she asked, nodding at Coriolanus. 

“They can join us after they’ve caught up,” said Sejanus. 

“Okay,” she agreed, transferring her hand to Sejanus’s. “Barb 
Azure might make us wait for them. You could help me shell nuts 


first, if you want. They’re last year’s, but nobody’s gotten sick yet.” 


“Well, that’s the best offer I’ve had in a long time.” Sejanus turned 
to Coriolanus. “We’ll see you later?” 

Coriolanus felt self-conscious. “Do I look okay?” 

“Gorgeous. Trust me, that lip’s working for you, soldier,” said 
Sejanus, and he headed back toward the house with Maude Ivory. 

Coriolanus gave his hair a swipe and waded into the Meadow. 
He’d never walked in such high grass, and the sensation of it tickling 
his fingertips added to his nervousness. It far exceeded his hopes, 
getting to meet up with her in private, in a flower-filled field, with the 
whole day ahead. Just the opposite of what the rushed encounter in 
the filthy Hob would’ve been. This was, for lack of a better word, 
romantic. He moved forward as quietly as possible. As a rule, she 
mystified him, and he welcomed the chance to observe her without 
her usual defenses in place. 

Drawing close, he took in the song she sang as she quietly 


strummed her guitar. 


Are you, are you 

Coming to the tree 

Where they strung up a man they say murdered three? 
Strange things did happen here 

No stranger would it be 


If we met up at midnight in the hanging tree. 


He didn’t recognize it, but it brought to mind the hanging of the 


rebel two days before. Had she been there? Had it prompted this? 


Are you, are you 

Coming to the tree 

Where the dead man called out for his love to flee? 
Strange things did happen here 

No stranger would it be 


If we met up at midnight in the hanging tree. 


Ah, yes. It was Arlo’s hanging, because where else would a dead 
man call out for his love to flee? “Run! Run, Lil! Ru — !” You’d need 
those unnatural mockingjays for that. But who was she inviting to 
meet her in the tree? Could it be him? Maybe she planned to sing this 
next Saturday as a secret message for him to meet her at midnight in 
the hanging tree? Not that he could, as he’d never be allowed off base 
at that hour. But she probably didn’t know that. 

Lucy Gray hummed now, testing out different chords behind the 
melody, while he admired the curve of her neck, the fineness of her 
skin. As he drew nearer, his foot landed on an old branch, which 
broke with a sharp snap. She sprang from the rock, twisting her body 
as she rose, her eyes wide with fear and the guitar held out as if to 
block a blow. For a moment, he thought she’d flee, but her alarm 
shifted to relief at the sight of him. She shook her head, as close as 
he’d ever seen her to embarrassed, as she propped her guitar against 
the rock. “Sorry. Still got one foot in the arena.” 

If his brief foray in the Games had left him nervous and 
nightmarish, he could only imagine how damaged she was. The last 


month had upended their lives and changed them irrevocably. Sad, 


really, as they were both rather exceptional people, for whom the 
world had reserved its harshest treatment. 

“Yes, it leaves quite an impression,” he said. They stood for a 
moment, drinking each other in, before they moved together. The bag 
of ice slid from his hand as she wrapped her arms around him, 
melting her body into his. He locked her in an embrace, remembering 
how scared he’d been for her, for himself, and how he hadn’t dared 
fantasize about this moment as it had seemed so unattainable. But 
here they were, safe in a beautiful meadow. Two thousand miles away 
from the arena. Awash in daylight, but none between them. 

“You found me,” she said. 

In District 12? In Panem? In the world itself? Never mind, it didn’t 
matter. “You knew I would.” 

“Hoped you would. Didn’t know. The odds didn’t seem in my 
favor.” She leaned back enough to free a hand and brushed his lips 
with her fingers. He felt the calluses from her guitar strings, the soft 
surrounding skin, as she examined the previous night’s injury. Then, 
almost shyly, she kissed him, sending shock waves through his body. 
Ignoring the pain in his lips, he responded, hungry and curious, every 
nerve in his body awake. He kissed her until his lip started to bleed a 
little, and would have kept going had she not pulled away. 

“Here,” she said. “Come in the shade.” 

The remaining ice cracked under his foot, and he retrieved it. “For 
you.” 


“Why thank you.” Lucy Gray drew him over to sit at the base of 


the rock. Taking the bag, she bit off a corner of the plastic to make a 
tiny hole and lifted it high to let the melted ice water drip into her 
mouth. “Ah. This must be the only cold thing this side of November.” 
Her hand squeezed the bag, sending a light spray over her face. “It’s 
wonderful; lean back.” He tilted his head back and felt the stuff 
drizzle over his lips, licking it off just in time for another long kiss. 
Then she drew up her knees and said, “So, Coriolanus Snow, what are 
you doing in my meadow?” 

What, indeed? “Just spending some time with my girl,” he 
answered. 

“I can hardly believe it.” Lucy Gray surveyed the Meadow. 
“Nothing since the reaping has seemed very real. And the Games were 
just a nightmare.” 

“For me, too,” he said. “But I want to hear what happened to you. 
Off camera.” 

They sat side by side, shoulders, ribs, hips pressed together, hands 
entwined, exchanging stories as they shared the ice water. Lucy Gray 
began with an account of the opening days of the Games, when she’d 
hidden with a progressively more rabid Jessup. “We kept moving from 
spot to spot in those tunnels. It’s like a maze down there. And poor 
Jessup getting sicker and crazier by the minute. That first night, we 
bedded down near the entrance. That was you, wasn’t it? Who came 
to move Marcus?” 

“Tt was me and Sejanus. He snuck in to... well, I’m not even sure 


what, to make some sort of statement. They sent me in to retrieve 


him,” Coriolanus explained. 

“Was it you killed Bobbin?” she asked quietly. 

He nodded. “Didn’t have a choice. And then three of the others 
tried to kill me.” 

Her face darkened. “I know. I could hear them boasting when they 
came back from the turnstiles. I thought you might be dead. Scared 
me, the thought of losing you. I didn’t draw breath until you sent in 
the water.” 

“Then you know what every moment was like for me,” Coriolanus 
said. “You were all I could think about.” 

“You, too.” She flexed her fingers. “I clutched that compact so 
hard you could see the imprint of the rose on my palm.” 

He caught her hand and kissed the palm. “I wanted so badly to 
help, and I felt so useless.” 

She caressed his cheek. “Oh, no. I could feel you looking out for 
me. With the water, and the food, and believe me, taking out Bobbin 
was major, even though I know it must have been awful for you. It 
sure was for me.” Lucy Gray admitted to three of her own kills. First 
Wovey, although that had not been targeted. She’d merely positioned 
a bottle of water with a few swallows and a bit of powder as if it had 
been dropped accidentally in the tunnels, and Wovey had been the 
one to find it. “I was gunning for Coral.” She claimed Reaper, whose 
puddle she’d poisoned, had contracted rabies when Jessup spat in his 
eye in the zoo. “So that was really a mercy killing. I spared him what 


Jessup went through. And taking out Treech with that viper was self- 


defense. Still not sure why those snakes loved me so. Not convinced it 
was my singing. Snakes don’t even hear well.” 

So he told her. About the lab, and Clemensia, and Dr. Gaul’s plan 
to release the snakes into the arena, and how he’d secretly dropped 
his handkerchief, his father’s handkerchief, into the tank so they could 
become accustomed to her scent. “But they found it, loaded with DNA 
from both of us.” 

“And that’s why you're here? Not the rat poison in the compact?” 
she asked. 

“Yes,” he said. “You covered beautifully for me on that one.” 

“Did my best.” She considered things for a minute. “Well, that’s it, 
then. I saved you from the fire, and you saved me from the snakes. 
We’re responsible for each other’s lives now.” 

“Are we?” he asked. 

“Sure,” she said. “You’re mine and I’m yours. It’s written in the 
stars.” 

“No escaping that.” He leaned over and kissed her, flushed with 
happiness, because although he did not believe in celestial writings, 
she did, and that would be enough to guarantee her loyalty. Not that 
his own loyalty was in question. If he hadn’t fallen in love with any of 
the girls in the Capitol, it was unlikely District 12 could offer much 
else in the way of temptation. 

A strange sensation at his neck called for attention, and he found 
Shamus sampling his collar. “Oh, hello. Can I help you, madam?” 


Lucy Gray laughed. “Happens you can, if you’ve a mind to. She 


needs milking.” 

“Milking. Hm. I’m not sure where to begin,” he said. 

“With a bucket. Up at the house.” She squirted a bit of ice water in 
Shamus’s direction, and the goat released the collar. Tearing the bag, 
she took out the last couple of cubes, popping one in Coriolanus’s 
mouth and one in her own. “Sure is nice to have ice this time of year. 
A luxury in summer and a curse in winter.” 

“Can’t you just ignore it?” asked Coriolanus. 

“Not around here. In January, our pipes froze, and we had to melt 
down ice chunks for water on the stove. For six people and a goat? 
You’d be surprised how much work that takes. It was better once the 
snow came; that melts pretty quick.” Lucy Gray took Shamus’s lead 
rope and picked up her guitar. 


2) 


“I got it.” Coriolanus reached for the instrument. Then he 
wondered if she trusted him with it. 

Lucy Gray easily handed it over. “Not as nice as the one Pluribus 
loaned us, but it pays for our keep. Only thing is, we’re running low 
on strings, and the homemade ones don’t cut it. Do you think, if I 
wrote to him, he could send me a few? I bet he has some leftover from 
when he ran his club. I can pay. I’ve still got most of the money Dean 
Highbottom gave me.” 

Coriolanus stopped in his tracks. “Dean Highbottom? Dean 
Highbottom gave you money?” 


“He did, but it was kind of on the quiet. First, he apologized for 


what ld been through, then he stuffed a wad of cash into my pocket. 


Glad to have it. The Covey didn’t perform while I was gone. Too 
shook up over losing me,” she said. “Anyway, I can pay for those 
strings if he’s of a mind to help.” 

Coriolanus promised to ask in his next letter, but the news of Dean 
Highbottom’s covert generosity threw him. Why would evil incarnate 
help his girlfriend? Respect? Pity? Guilt? Morphling-induced whimsy? 
He mulled it over as they made their way to her front porch, where 
she hitched Shamus to a post. 

“Come on in. Meet the family.” Lucy Gray took his hand and led 
him to the door. “How’s Tigris? I sure wish I could’ve thanked her in 
person for the soap and my dress. Now that I’m home, I mean to send 
her a letter, and maybe a song if I come up with something good 
enough.” 

“She’d like that,” said Coriolanus. “Things aren’t going so well at 
home.” 

“Tm sure they miss you. Is it more than that?” she asked. 

Before he could answer, they’d entered the house. It consisted of 
one large, open room and what seemed to be a sleeping area up in a 
loft. Along the back, a coal stove, a sink, a shelf of dishware, and an 
ancient refrigerator designated the kitchen. A rack of costumes lined 
the right wall, their collection of instruments the left. An old 
television with an oversized antenna that branched out like antlers, 
rigged with twisted pieces of aluminum foil, sat on a crate. Other than 
some chairs and a table, the place was bare of furniture. 


Tam Amber leaned back in one of the chairs, holding his mandolin 


on his lap but not playing. Clerk Carmine hung his head off the loft, 
gazing unhappily at Barb Azure and Maude Ivory, who seemed to 
have worked herself into a state of indignation. At the sight of them, 
she shot across the floor and started pulling Lucy Gray toward the 
window that looked out over the backyard. “Lucy Gray, he’s making 
trouble again!” 

“You let him in?” Lucy Gray asked, seeming to know who she 
meant. 

“No. Said he just wanted the rest of his stuff. We threw it out 
back,” said Barb Azure, her arms crossed in disapproval. 

“So, what’s the problem?” Lucy Gray spoke calmly, but Coriolanus 
could feel her grip tighten. 

“That,” said Barb Azure, nodding out the back window. 

Still in tow, Coriolanus followed Lucy Gray and looked into the 
backyard. Maude Ivory wriggled in between them. “Sejanus is 
supposed to be helping me with the nuts.” 

Billy Taupe knelt on the ground, a pile of clothes and a few books 
beside him. He was talking rapidly as he scraped out some kind of 
picture in the dirt. Periodically, he’d gesture, pointing this way and 
that. Across from him, down on one knee, Sejanus listened intently, 
nodding in understanding and occasionally throwing in a question. 
While the sight of Billy Taupe in what he now considered his territory 
annoyed him, Coriolanus did not see much cause for concern. He 
could not imagine what he and Sejanus had to discuss. Perhaps they’d 


found some mutual grievance — like how their families didn’t 


understand them — to whine about? 

“Are you worried about Sejanus? He’s fine. He talks to anybody.” 
Coriolanus tried but failed to make out Billy Taupe’s picture in the 
dirt. “What’s he drawing?” 

“Looks like he’s giving some sort of directions,” said Barb Azure, 
relieving him of the guitar. “And if I’m right, your friend needs to go 
home.” 

“Pll take care of it.” Lucy Gray started to release Coriolanus’s 
hand, but he hung on. “Thanks, but you don’t have to deal with all my 
baggage.” 

“It’s in the stars, I guess,” Coriolanus said with a smile. It was time 
anyway that he confronted Billy Taupe and laid down a few rules. 
Billy Taupe had to accept that Lucy Gray was no longer his, but 
belonged firmly, and for always, to Coriolanus. 

Lucy Gray didn’t answer, but she stopped trying to free her hand. 
As they walked quietly through the open back door, the brightness of 
the August sun, now climbing high in the sky, made him squint. So 
engrossed was the pair that it was not until he and Lucy Gray stood 
directly over them that Billy Taupe reacted, swiping the picture from 
the dirt with his hand. 

Without Barb Azure’s tip-off, Coriolanus might have been clueless, 
but as it was, he recognized the image almost immediately. It was a 


map of the base. 


< 


Sejanus startled in what Coriolanus couldn’t help thinking was a 
guilty manner, getting rapidly to his feet as he brushed the dust from 
his uniform. Billy Taupe, on the other hand, rose slowly, almost lazily, 
to confront them. 

“Well, look who’s decided to talk to me,” he said, grinning 
uneasily at Lucy Gray. Was this the first time they’d spoken since the 
Hunger Games? 

“Sejanus, Maude Ivory’s all bent out of shape about you bailing on 
those nuts,” she said. 

“Yes, I’ve been shirking my duties.” Sejanus held out his hand to 
Billy Taupe, who didn’t hesitate to give it a shake. “Nice meeting 
you.” 

“Sure, you, too. You can find me around the Hob some days, if you 
want to talk more,” Billy Taupe replied. 

“Tll keep it in mind,” said Sejanus, making for the house. 


Lucy Gray released Coriolanus’s hand and squared her shoulders 


with Billy Taupe’s. “Go away, Billy Taupe. And don’t come back.” 

“Or what, Lucy Gray? You'll sic your Peacekeepers on me?” He 
laughed. 

“If need be,” she said. 

Billy Taupe glanced over at Coriolanus. “Seem like a pretty tame 
pair.” 

“You don’t get it. There’s no walking this back,” said Lucy Gray. 

Billy Taupe turned angry. “You know I didn’t try and kill you.” 

“I know youre still running with the girl that did,” Lucy Gray shot 
back. “Hear you’ve made yourself right at home at the mayor’s.” 

“And who sent me over there in the first place, I wonder? Makes 
me sick how you’re playing the kids. Poor Lucy Gray. Poor lamb,” he 
sneered. 

“They’re not stupid. They want you gone, too,” she spat out. 

Billy Taupe’s hand whipped out, grabbing her wrist and pulling 
her up against him. “Where, exactly, am I supposed to go?” 

Before Coriolanus could intervene, Lucy Gray sank her teeth into 
Billy Taupe’s hand, causing him to yelp and release her. He glared at 
Coriolanus, who’d stepped up protectively beside her. “Doesn’t look 
like you’re so lonely yourself. This your fancy man from the Capitol? 
Chased all this way after you? He’s got a few surprises waiting for 
him.” 

“T already know all about you.” Coriolanus didn’t, really. But it 
made him feel at less of a disadvantage. 


Billy Taupe gave a disbelieving laugh. “Me? I’m the rosebud in 


that dung heap.” 

“Why don’t you go, like she asked?” said Coriolanus coldly. 

“Fine. You'll learn.” Billy Taupe gathered his possessions into his 
arms. “You'll learn soon enough.” He strode off into the hot morning. 

Lucy Gray watched him go, rubbing the wrist he’d grabbed. “If 
you want to run, now’s the time.” 

“I don’t want to run,” said Coriolanus, although the exchange had 
been unsettling. 

“He’s a liar and a louse. Sure, I flirt with anybody. It’s part of my 
job. But what he’s implying, that just isn’t true.” Lucy Gray looked 
over at the window. “And what if it was? What if it was that or letting 
Maude Ivory starve? Neither of us would have let that happen, no 
matter what it took. Only, he’s got a different set of rules for him than 
for me. Like always. What makes him a victim makes me trash.” 

This brought back disturbing memories of his conversation with 
Tigris, and Coriolanus changed the subject quickly. “He’s seeing the 
mayor’s daughter now?” 

“That’s how it is. I sent him over there to pick up some cash 
teaching piano lessons, and the next thing I know, her daddy’s calling 
out my name in the reaping,” said Lucy Gray. “Not sure what she told 
him. He’d go nuts if he knew she was running around with Billy 
Taupe. Well, I survived the Capitol, but not to come back for more of 
the same.” 

Something in her manner, the raw distress, convinced Coriolanus. 


He touched her arm. “Make a new life, then.” 


She entwined her fingers with his. “A new life. With you.” But a 
cloud hung over her. 

Coriolanus gave her a nudge. “Don’t we have a goat to milk?” 

Her face relaxed. “We do.” She led him back into the house, only 
to find Maude Ivory had taken Sejanus out to teach him to milk 
Shamus. 

“He couldn’t say no. He’s in the doghouse for talking to the 
enemy,” said Barb Azure. She took a pan of chilled milk from the old 
refrigerator, set it on the table, and examined it. From a shelf, Clerk 
Carmine retrieved a glass jar with some sort of contraption on the top. 
A crank attached to the lid appeared to move small paddles within the 
jar. 

“What are you doing there?” asked Coriolanus. 

“A fool’s errand.” Barb Azure laughed. “Trying to get enough 
cream so as we can make butter. Only goat’s milk doesn’t separate 
like cow’s.” 

“Maybe if we gave it another day?” Clerk Carmine said. 

“Well, maybe.” Barb Azure returned the pan to the refrigerator. 

“We promised Maude Ivory we'd try. She’s crazy for butter. Tam 
Amber fashioned the churn for her birthday. Guess we'll see,” said 
Lucy Gray. 

Coriolanus fiddled with the crank. “So you... ?” 

“Theoretically, when we get enough cream, we turn the handle, 
and the paddles churn it into butter,” Lucy Gray explained. “Well, 


that’s what someone told us anyway.” 


“Seems like a lot of work.” Coriolanus thought of the beautiful, 
uniform pats he’d helped himself to from the buffet on reaping day, 
never giving a moment’s thought as to where they came from. 

“It is. But itll be worth it if it works. Maude Ivory doesn’t sleep 
well since they took me away. Seems fine during the day, then wakes 
up screaming at night,” confided Lucy Gray. “Trying to get some 
happy in her head.” 

Barb Azure strained the fresh milk Sejanus and Maude Ivory 
brought in and poured it into mugs while Lucy Gray portioned out the 
bread. Coriolanus had never had goat’s milk, but Sejanus smacked his 
lips, saying it reminded him of his childhood in District 2. 

“Did I ever go to District Two?” Maude Ivory asked. 

“No, baby, that’s out west. The Covey stayed more east,” Barb 
Azure told her. 

“Sometimes we went north,” said Tam Amber, and Coriolanus 
realized it was the first time he’d heard him speak. 

“To what district?” asked Coriolanus. 

“No district, really,” said Barb Azure. “Up where the Capitol didn’t 
care about.” 

Coriolanus felt embarrassed for them. No such place existed. At 
least not anymore. The Capitol controlled the known world. For a 
moment, he imagined a group of people in wild animal furs scraping 
out an existence in a cave somewhere. He supposed such a thing could 
happen, but that life would be a big step down from even the districts. 


Barely human. 


“Probably rounded up like we were,” said Clerk Carmine. 

Barb Ivory gave a sad smile. “Doubt we’ll ever know.” 

“Is there any more? I’m still hungry,” Maude Ivory complained, 
but the bread was gone. 

“Eat a handful of your nuts,” Barb Azure said. “They’ll feed us at 
the wedding.” 

To Coriolanus’s dismay, it turned out that the Covey had a job that 
afternoon, playing for a wedding in town. He had hoped to get Lucy 
Gray off alone again for a more in-depth conversation about Billy 
Taupe, her history with him, and exactly why he might be drawing a 
map of the base in the dirt. But it would all have to wait, since the 
Covey began to prepare for their gig as soon as the dishes were 
washed. 

“Sorry to run you off so soon, but this is how we earn our bread.” 
Lucy Gray saw Coriolanus and Sejanus to the door. “The butcher’s 
daughter’s getting hitched, and we need to make a good impression. 
People with money to hire us will be there. You could wait and walk 
us over, I guess, but that might...” 

“Start people gossiping,” he finished for her, glad she had been the 
first to suggest it. “Probably best if we keep it between us. When can I 
see you again?” 

“Anytime you like,” she said. “I have a feeling your schedule’s a 
little more demanding than mine.” 

“Do you play at the Hob next Saturday?” he asked. 


“If they let us. After the trouble last night.” They agreed he would 


come as early as he could to share a few precious minutes with her 
before the show. “There’s a shed we use, just behind the Hob. You can 
meet us there. If there’s no show, just come to the house.” 

Coriolanus waited until he and Sejanus reached the deserted 
backstreets near the base before he broached the subject of Billy 
Taupe. “So, what did you two have to talk about?” 


? 


“Nothing, really,” said Sejanus uncomfortably. “Just some local 
gossip.” 

“And that required a map of the base?” asked Coriolanus. 

Sejanus pulled up short. “You never miss a beat, do you? I 
remember that from school. Watching you watch other people. 
Pretending you weren’t. And choosing the moments you weighed in so 
carefully.” 

“Pm weighing in now, Sejanus. Why were you in deep discussion 
with him over a map of the base? What is he? A rebel sympathizer?” 
Sejanus averted his gaze, so Coriolanus continued. “What possible 
interest can he have in a Capitol base?” 

Sejanus stared at the ground for a minute, then said, “It’s the girl. 
From the hanging. The one they arrested the other day. Lil. She’s 
locked up there.” 

“And the rebels want to rescue her?” pressed Coriolanus. 

“No. They just want to communicate with her. Make sure she’s all 
right,” explained Sejanus. 

Coriolanus tried to keep his temper in check. “And you said you 


would help.” 


“No, I made no promises. But if I can, if I’m near the guardhouse, 
perhaps I can find something out. Her family’s frantic,” said Sejanus. 

“Oh, wonderful. Fantastic. So now you're a rebel informant.” 
Coriolanus took off down the road. “I thought you were letting the 
whole rebel thing go!” 

Sejanus followed on his heels. “I can’t, all right? It’s part of who I 
am. And you’re the one who said I could help the people in the 
districts if I agreed to leave the arena.” 

“T believe I said you could fight for the tributes, meaning you 
might be able to procure more humane conditions for them,” 
Coriolanus corrected him. 

“Humane conditions!” Sejanus burst out. “They’re being forced to 
murder each other! And the tributes are from the districts, too, so I 
don’t really see a distinction. It’s a tiny thing, Coryo, to check up on 
this girl.” 

“Clearly, it isn’t,” said Coriolanus. “Not to Billy Taupe, anyway. Or 
why did he wipe out that map so fast? Because he knows what he’s 
asking. He knows he’s making you a collaborator. And do you know 
what happens to collaborators?” 

“I just thought —” began Sejanus. 

“No, Sejanus, you’re not thinking at all!” steamed Coriolanus. 
“And, even worse, you’re falling in with people who barely seem 
capable of thought. Billy Taupe? What’s his stake in this anyway? 
Money? Because to hear Lucy Gray talk, the Covey aren’t rebels. Or 


Capitol. They’re pretty much set on hanging on to their own identity, 


whatever that is.” 

“I don’t know. He said he... he was asking for a friend,” 
stammered Sejanus. 

“A friend?” Coriolanus realized he was shouting and dropped his 
voice to a hush. “A friend of old Arlo, who set the explosions in the 
mines? There was a piece of brilliant plotting. What possible result 
could he have been hoping for? They have no resources, nothing at all 
that would allow them to reengage in a war. And in the meantime, 
they’re biting the hand that feeds them, because how will they eat 
here in Twelve without those mines? They’re not exactly bubbling 
over with options. What sort of strategy was that?” 

“A desperate one. But look around!” Sejanus grabbed his arm, 
forcing him to stop. “How long can you expect them to go on like 
this?” 

Coriolanus felt a surge of hatred as he remembered the war, the 
devastation the rebels had brought to his own life. He yanked his arm 
free. “They lost the war. A war they started. They took that risk. This 
is the price they pay.” 

Sejanus looked about, as if unsure which direction to go, and then 
slumped down on a broken wall along the road. Coriolanus had the 
unpleasant feeling that he was somehow taking old Strabo Plinth’s 
role in the endless discussion over where Sejanus’s loyalties lay. He 
had not signed up for this. On the other hand, if Sejanus went rogue 
out here, there was no telling where it would end. 


Coriolanus sat down beside him. “Look, I think things will 


improve, really, but not like this. As it gets better overall, it will get 
better here, but not if they keep blowing up the mines. All that does is 
add to the body count.” 

Sejanus nodded, and they sat there as a few raggedy children went 
by, kicking an old tin can down the road. “Do you think I’ve 
committed treason?” 

“Not quite yet,” said Coriolanus with a half smile. 

Sejanus tugged at some weeds growing out of the wall. “Dr. Gaul 
does. My father went to see her, before he went to Dean Highbottom 
and the board. Everyone knows she’s really the one in charge. He 
went to ask if I might be given the chance you were, to sign up for the 
Peacekeepers.” 

“T thought that would be automatic,” said Coriolanus. “If you were 
expelled like me.” 

“That was my father’s hope. But she said, ‘Don’t conflate the boys’ 
actions. A piece of faulty strategy is not commensurate with a 


999 


treasonous act of rebel support.” Bitterness crept into his voice. “And 
so a check appeared for a new lab for her mutts. It must have been the 
priciest ticket to District Twelve in history.” 

Coriolanus gave a low whistle. “A gymnasium and a lab?” 

“Say what you will, I’ve done more for Capitol reconstruction than 
the president himself,” Sejanus joked halfheartedly. “You're right, 
Coriolanus. ľve been stupid. Again. Pll be more careful in the future. 


Whatever that holds.” 


“Probably some fried baloney,” Coriolanus said. 


“Well, then, lead on,” said Sejanus, and they resumed their trek to 
the base. 

Their bunkmates were just rolling out of bed when they returned. 
Sejanus took Beanpole out to work on his drills, and Smiley and Bug 
went over to see what was happening in the rec room. Coriolanus 
planned to use the hours until dinner studying for the officer 
candidate test, but his conversation with Sejanus had planted an idea 
in his brain. It grew rapidly until it wiped out everything else. Dr. 
Gaul had defended him. Well, not defended him. But made sure 
Strabo Plinth understood that Coriolanus was in an entirely different 
class than his delinquent son. Coriolanus’s crime had been only “a 
piece of faulty strategy,” which didn’t sound like much of a crime at 
all. Perhaps she hadn’t written him off entirely? She’d seemed to take 
special pains with his education during the Games. Singled him out. 
Would it be worth writing to her now, just to... just to... well, he 
didn’t know what he hoped to achieve. But who knew, up the road, 
when he might be an officer of some consequence, if their paths might 
not cross again. It couldn’t hurt to write her. He’d already been 
stripped of everything of value. The worst she could do was ignore 
him. 

Coriolanus chewed on his pen as he tried to compose his thoughts. 
Should he start with an apology? Why? She would know he wasn’t 
sorry for trying to win, only for being caught. Better to bypass the 
apology entirely. He could tell her of his life here on the base, but it 


seemed too mundane. Their conversations had been, if nothing else, 


elevated. An ongoing lesson, exclusively for his benefit. And then it 
struck him. The thing to do was to continue the lesson. Where had 
they left off? His one-pager on chaos, control, and — what was that 
third one? He always had trouble remembering. Oh, yes, contract. The 


one it took the might of the Capitol to enforce. And so he began... . 


Dear Dr. Gaul, 


So much has occurred since our last conversation, but 
every day I am informed by it. District Twelve provides 
an excellent stage upon which to watch the battle 
between chaos and control play out, and, as a 


Peacekeeper, I have a front-row seat. 


He went on to discuss the things he’d been privy to since his 
arrival. The palpable tension between the citizens and the Capitol 
forces, how it threatened to spill over into violence at the hanging, 


how it had overflowed into a brawl at the Hob. 


It reminded me of my stint in the arena. It’s one thing to 
speak of humans’ essential nature theoretically, another 
to consider it when a fist is smashing into your mouth. 
Only this time I felt more prepared. I’m not convinced 
that we are all as inherently violent as you say, but it 
takes very little to bring the beast to the surface, at least 


under the cover of darkness. I wonder how many of 


those miners would have thrown a punch if the Capitol 
could have seen their faces? In the midday sun of the 


hanging, they grumbled but didn’t dare to fight. 


Well, it’s something to think over while my lip heals. 


He added that he did not expect she would reply but wished her 
well. Two pages. Short and sweet. Not overly demanding of attention. 
Not asking for anything. Not apologizing. He folded the letter crisply, 
sealed the envelope, and addressed it to her at the Citadel. To avoid 
questions, especially from Sejanus, he went over directly and dropped 
it in the mail. There goes nothing, he thought. 

At dinner, the fried baloney came with applesauce and greasy 
chunks of potatoes, and he ate every bite on his heaping tray with 
relish. After supper, Sejanus helped him study for the test, being 
noncommittal as to his own interest in it. 

“They only offer it three times a year, and one’s this Wednesday 
afternoon,” said Coriolanus. “We should both take it. If only for 
practice.” 

“No, I don’t have a handle on this military stuff yet. I think you'll 
get through it, though,” Sejanus replied. “Even if you’re a little shaky, 
you'll ace the rest of it, and your overall score might be high enough 
to pass. Go ahead, take it before you forget all your math.” He had a 
point. Already some of Coriolanus’s geometry seemed a bit rusty. 

“If you were an officer, perhaps they’d let you train to be a doctor. 


You were awfully good in science,” said Coriolanus, trying to feel out 


where Sejanus’s head might be after their conversation. He definitely 
needed something new to focus on. “And then you could, like you 
said, help people.” 

“That’s true.” Sejanus thought it over. “Maybe Ill talk to the 
doctors over at the clinic and find out how they got there.” 

The following morning, after a night of strange dreams that 
vacillated between him kissing Lucy Gray and feeding Dr. Gaul’s 
snakelets, Coriolanus added his name to the list to take the test. The 
officer in charge told him that he’d be officially excused from training, 
and that in itself seemed incentive to sign up, for the week promised 
to be broiling. It was more than that, really. The heat, yes, but also 
the boredom of his day-to-day life had begun to wear on him. If he 
could become an officer, Coriolanus would be given more challenging 
tasks. 

The day brought two alterations to the regular schedule. The first, 
that they would begin serving on guard duty, caused little excitement, 
as the job was widely known for its tedium. Still, Coriolanus reasoned, 
he’d rather be manning the desk at the front of the barracks than 
scrubbing pans. Perhaps he could sneak in a bit of reading or writing. 

The second change unnerved him. When they reported for 
marksmanship, they were informed that Coriolanus’s suggestion to 
shoot the birds around the gallows had been approved. Beforehand, 
however, the Citadel wanted them to trap a hundred or so jabberjays 
and mockingjays and return them to the lab, unharmed, for study. His 


squad had been tapped to help position cages in the trees that 


afternoon, which meant he’d be working with scientists from Dr. 
Gaul’s lab. A team had arrived by hovercraft that morning. He’d only 
ever seen a handful of people at the Citadel, but the idea of 
encountering anyone from the lab, where no doubt everyone knew the 
details of his trickery with the snakes and subsequent disgrace, set 
him on edge. And then a terrible thought hit him: Surely, Dr. Gaul 
wouldn’t oversee the bird roundup herself? Sending her a letter across 
the expanse of Panem had seemed almost like a lark, but it made him 
tremble to think of meeting her face-to-face for the first time since his 
banishment. 

As Coriolanus bounced along in the back of the truck, unarmed 
and perhaps soon to be unmasked, his optimism from the weekend 
vanished. The other recruits, happy to be on what they seemed to 
view as a field trip, chattered around him as he sank into silence. 

Sejanus, however, understood his trepidation. “Dr. Gaul won’t be 
here, you know,” he whispered. “This is strictly lackey work if we’re 
involved.” Coriolanus nodded but was not convinced. 

When the truck pulled up under the hanging tree, he hid in the 
back of the squad while he surveyed the four Capitol scientists, all of 
whom were ridiculously dressed in their white lab coats, as if they 
might be about to discover the secret to immortality instead of 
trapping a bunch of insipid birds in hundred-degree heat. He 
examined each face, but none looked even remotely familiar, and he 
relaxed a bit. The cavernous lab had contained hundreds of scientists, 


and these were bird, not reptile, specialists. They greeted the soldiers 


good-naturedly, directing everyone to grab one of the wire mesh 
traps, which looked like cages, while they explained the setup. The 
recruits obliged, collected their traps, and took seats at the edge of the 
woods near the gallows. 

Sejanus gave him a thumbs-up at Dr. Gaul’s absence, and he was 
about to return it when he noticed a figure in a clearing deeper in the 
woods. A woman in a lab coat stood motionless, her back to them, 
head tipped sideways as she listened to the cacophony of birdsong. 
The other scientists waited respectfully until she finished and made 
her way back through the trees. As she pushed a branch aside, 
Coriolanus got a clear look at her face, which might have been 
forgettable had it not been for the large, pink glasses perched on her 
nose. He recognized her at once. She was the one who’d chewed him 
out for upsetting her birds when he’d been flailing around, trying to 
escape the lab after watching Clemensia collapse in a rainbow of pus. 
The question was, would she remember him? He slouched down even 
farther behind Smiley’s back and developed a fascination with his bird 
trap. 

The rosily bespectacled woman, who one of the scientists 
affectionately introduced as “Our Dr. Kay,” greeted them in a friendly 
manner, explaining their mission— to collect fifty each of the 
jabberjays and mockingjays — and laying out the plan for achieving 
it. They were to help seed the forest with the traps, which would be 
baited with food, water, and decoy birds to draw in the prey. The 


traps would be open for two days so that the birds could freely come 


and go. On Wednesday, they would return, refresh the bait, and set 
the traps to capture the birds. 

Eager to please, the recruits divided into five groups of four, each 
of which followed one of the scientists into a different part of the 
woods. Coriolanus swerved into a clump with the man who’d 
introduced Dr. Kay and concealed himself in the foliage as soon as 
possible. In addition to the traps, they carried backpacks containing 
various types of bait. They hiked a hundred yards until they reached a 
red mark on one of the trunks indicating their ground zero. Under the 
scientist’s direction, they spread out concentrically from the spot, 
working in teams of two to bait the traps and position them high in 
the trees. 

Coriolanus found himself paired with Bug, who turned out to be a 
first-class climber, having been raised in District 11, where the 
children helped to tend the orchards. They spent a sweaty but 
productive couple of hours working, with Coriolanus baiting and Bug 
hauling the traps into the branches. When they reconvened, 
Coriolanus ducked out and sat on the truck bed, examining his 
multiple bug bites until they’d put some distance between him and Dr. 
Kay. She had paid him no special attention at all. Don’t be paranoid, he 
thought. She doesn’t remember you. 

Tuesday was back to business as usual, though Coriolanus 
reviewed for the test over meals and in the brief time before lights- 
out. He was itching to get back to Lucy Gray, and she kept drifting 


into his thoughts, but he did his best to push her out, promising 


himself he could revel in daydreams when the test was over. On 
Wednesday, he muscled his way through the morning workout, sat 
alone during lunch with the manual for a final cram, and then went 
over to the classroom in which they did their tactical lessons. Two 
other Peacekeepers had signed up, one in his late twenties who 
claimed to have taken the test five times already and another who 
must have been pushing fifty, which seemed ancient for a life change. 

Test-taking ranked among Coriolanus’s greatest talents, and he felt 
the familiar rush of excitement as he opened the cover of his booklet. 
He loved the challenge, and his obsessive nature meant almost instant 
absorption into the mental obstacle course. Three hours later, sweat- 
soaked, exhausted, and happy, he handed in his booklet and went to 
the mess hall for ice. He sat in the strip of shade his barrack provided, 
rubbing the cubes over his body and reviewing the questions in his 
head. The ache of losing his university career returned briefly, but he 
pushed it away with thoughts of becoming a legendary military leader 
like his father. Maybe this had been his destiny all along. 

The rest of his squad was still out with the Citadel scientists, 
climbing trees and activating the traps, so he wandered over to collect 
the mail for his room. Two giant boxes from Ma Plinth greeted him, 
promising another wild night at the Hob. He carried them back but 
decided to wait to open them until the others returned. Ma had also 
sent him a separate letter, thanking him for all he had done for 
Sejanus and asking him to continue to keep an eye on her boy. 


Coriolanus put down the letter and sighed at the thought of being 


Sejanus’s keeper. Escaping the Capitol may have temporarily relieved 
his torment, but he’d already worked himself into a state about the 
rebels. Conspiring with Billy Taupe. Agonizing over the girl in the 
guardhouse. How long would it be before he pulled another stunt like 
sneaking into the arena? Then, once again, people would look to 
Coriolanus to get him out of the mess. 

The thing was, he didn’t believe Sejanus would ever really change. 
Perhaps he was incapable of it, but, more to the point, he didn’t want 
to. Already he had rejected what the Peacekeeping life offered: 
pretending he couldn’t shoot, refusing to take the officer candidate 
test, making it clear he had no desire to excel on behalf of the Capitol. 
District 2 would always be home. District people would always be 
family. District rebels would always have a just cause on their side . . . 
and it would be Sejanus’s moral duty to help them. 

Coriolanus felt a new sense of threat rising up inside him. He’d 
tried to shrug off Sejanus’s misguided behavior in the Capitol, but 
here it was different. Here he was viewed as an adult, and the 
consequences of his actions could be life or death. If he helped the 
rebels, he could find himself in front of a firing squad. What was 
going on in Sejanus’s head anyway? 

On impulse, Coriolanus opened Sejanus’s locker, removed his box, 
and slid the contents onto the floor carefully. They included a stack of 
mementos, a pack of gum, and three medicine bottles prescribed by a 
Capitol doctor. Two appeared to be sleeping capsules and the third a 


bottle of morphling with a dropper built into the lid, much like the 


one he’d seen Dean Highbottom use on occasion. He knew Sejanus 
had been medicated during his breakdown, Ma had told him as much, 
but why had he brought these here? Had Ma slipped them in as a 
precaution? He flipped through the rest of the contents. A scrap of 
fabric, stationery, pens, a small chunk of marble crudely carved into 
something that might be a heart, and a pile of photos. The Plinths had 
annual portraits taken, and he could map Sejanus’s growth from 
infant to this past new year. All the pictures were of family, except an 
old photo of a group of schoolchildren. Coriolanus took it to be one of 
their class, but no one looked familiar, and a lot of the kids were 
dressed in rather ill-fitting, shabby clothing. He spotted Sejanus, in a 
neat suit, smiling pensively from the second row. Behind him towered 
a boy who he took to be much older. On closer inspection, though, the 
pieces fell together. It was Marcus. In a school photo from Sejanus’s 
last year in District 2. There was no record of his Capitol classmates at 
all, not even Coriolanus. For some reason, this seemed the greatest 
confirmation of where Sejanus’s loyalties lay. 

At the bottom of the pile, he found a thick silver frame holding, of 
all things, Sejanus’s diploma. It had been removed from its fine 
leather folder and transferred to the frame, as if for display. But why? 
Sejanus would not in a million years hang it on the wall, even if he 
had a wall to hang it on. Coriolanus fingered the frame, tracing the 
tarnished metal, and flipped it over. The back panel seemed slightly 
askew, and a tiny corner of pale green paper peeked from the side. 


That’s not just paper, he thought grimly, and slid the fasteners to free 


the panel. As it popped off, a stack of freshly minted bills spilled to 
the floor. 

Money. And quite a lot of it. Why would Sejanus have brought so 
much cash to his new life as a Peacekeeper? Would Ma have insisted? 
No, not Ma. She seemed to feel money was at the root of their misery. 
Strabo, then? Thinking that whatever his son encountered, the money 
would shield him from harm? Possibly, but Strabo usually handled the 
payoffs himself. Was it something Sejanus had done on his own, 
without his parents’ knowledge? That was more worrisome to think 
of. Was this a lifetime of allowances carefully squirreled away for a 
rainy day? Withdrawn from the bank the day before his departure and 
hidden in his picture frame? Sejanus always complained about his 
father’s habit of buying his way out of trouble, but had it been 
ingrained from birth? The Plinth method of solving problems. Passed 
down from father to son. Distasteful but efficient. 

Coriolanus scooped up the cash, tapped it into a neat stack, and 
flipped through the bills. There were hundreds, thousands of dollars 
here. But what use would it be in District 12, where there was nothing 
to buy? Nothing, anyway, that a Peacekeeper’s salary wouldn’t cover. 
Most of the recruits were sending half their paychecks home, as the 
Capitol provided almost everything they needed, short of stationery 
and a night at the Hob. He supposed the Hob had the black market, 
but he hadn’t seen much to tempt a Peacekeeper once the booze had 
been bought. They didn’t need dead rabbits, or shoelaces, or 


homemade soap. And even if they did, they could easily afford it. Of 


course, there were other things you could buy. Like information, and 
access, and silence. There were bribes. There was power. 

Coriolanus heard the voices of his returning squad. He swiftly 
concealed the cash in the silver frame, being careful to leave one tiny 
corner of green visible. He repacked the box and stored it in Sejanus’s 
locker. By the time his bunkmates rolled in, he was standing over 
Ma’s boxes with his arms spread wide, wearing a big grin and asking, 
“Who’s free on Saturday?” 

As Smiley, Beanpole, and Bug tore open the boxes and unpacked 
the treasures within, Sejanus sat on a bed and watched with 
amusement. 

Coriolanus leaned on the bunk above him. “Thank goodness for 
your ma. Otherwise we’d all be flat broke.” 

“Yes, not a penny between us,” Sejanus agreed. 

The one thing Coriolanus had never questioned was Sejanus’s 
honesty. If anything, he’d have welcomed a little less of it. But this 
was a bald-faced lie, delivered as naturally as the truth. Which meant 


that now anything he said was suspect. 


> 


Sejanus smacked himself on the forehead. “Oh! How did the test 
go?” 

“We'll see, I guess,” said Coriolanus. “They’re sending it to the 
Capitol for grading. They said it could take awhile before I get the 
results.” 

“You'll pass,” Sejanus assured him. “You deserve to.” 

So supportive. So duplicitous. So self-destructive. Like a moth to a 
flame. Coriolanus started a bit, remembering Pluribus’s letter. Wasn’t 
that what Dean Highbottom had kept muttering after his fight with 
Coriolanus’s father all those years ago? Almost. He’d used the plural. 
“Like moths to a flame.” As if an entire flock of moths were flying 
straight into an inferno. A whole group bent on self-destruction. Who 
was he referring to? Oh, who cared? Drugged, hate-fueled, old High- 
as-a-Kite-Bottom. Better not to even wonder. 

After dinner, Coriolanus put in his first hour of guard duty at an 
air hangar on the far side of the base. Paired with an old-timer who 


immediately dozed off after instructing him to keep an eye out, he 


found his thoughts fixating on Lucy Gray, wishing he could see her, or 
at least talk to her. It seemed a waste to be on guard, where clearly 
nothing ever happened, when he could be holding her in his arms. He 
felt trapped here on base, while she could freely roam the night. In 
some ways, it had been better to have her locked up in the Capitol, 
where he always had a general idea of what she was doing. For all he 
knew, Billy Taupe was trying to worm his way back into her heart at 
this very moment. Why pretend he wasn’t at least a little jealous? 
Perhaps he should have had him arrested after all... . 

Back in the barrack, he penned a quick note to Ma, praising the 
treats, and another to Pluribus to thank him for his help, then to ask 
him about getting strings for Lucy Gray. His brain tired from the test, 
Coriolanus slept deeply and awoke already sweating in the hot August 
morning. When did the weather break? September? October? By 
lunchtime, the line from the ice machine extended halfway around the 
mess hall. Slated for kitchen detail, Coriolanus braced himself for the 
worst but found that he’d been upgraded from dishes to chopping. 
This would’ve been a welcome change had he not been assigned the 
onions. The tears he could live with, but he became increasingly 
concerned about the smell that radiated from his hands. Even after an 
evening of mopping, it still drew comment in the barrack, and no 
amount of scrubbing erased it. Would he be reeking when he saw 
Lucy Gray again? 

Friday morning, despite the heat and his unease around the 


Citadel scientists, he felt a certain relief that he’d be dealing with 


birds that afternoon. Though unlikable, they left no noticeable odor. 
When Beanpole collapsed during drills, the sergeant had his 
bunkmates haul him to the clinic, where Coriolanus took the 
opportunity to get a metal can of powder for a heat rash that 
extended across his chest and under his right arm. “Keep it dry,” the 
medic advised. He had to suppress the impulse to roll his eyes. He’d 
not been dry, not one moment, since he’d arrived in the steam bath of 
District 12. 

After a lunch of cold meat-spread sandwiches, they bounced along 
in the truck to the woods, where the scientists, still sporting their 
white lab coats, awaited them. Just as they teamed up, Coriolanus 
learned that Bug, lacking a partner on Wednesday, had been working 
in tandem with Dr. Kay. She’d been so impressed with his agility in 
the branches, she’d requested him again. It was too late to switch 
partners, so Coriolanus followed her group into the trees, hanging as 
far back as he could. 

It was no use. As he watched Bug carry a newly baited cage up 
into the first tree and swap it with one holding a captured jabberjay, 
Dr. Kay came up behind him. “So, what do you think of the districts, 
Private Snow?” 

He was trapped like a bird. Trapped like the tributes in the zoo. 
Fleeing into the trees was not an option. He remembered Lucy Gray’s 
advice that had saved him in the monkey house. Own it. 

He turned to her with a smile sheepish enough to acknowledge her 


nailing him but amused enough to show he didn’t care. “You know, I 


think I learned more about Panem in one day as a Peacekeeper than I 
did in thirteen years of school.” 

Dr. Kay laughed. “Yes. There’s a world of education to be had out 
here. I was assigned to Twelve during the war. Lived on your base. 
Worked in these woods.” 

“You were part of the jabberjay project, then?” asked Coriolanus. 
At least they’d both had public failures. 

“T headed it,” said Dr. Kay significantly. 

A major public failure. Coriolanus felt more comfortable. He’d only 
embarrassed himself in the Hunger Games, not a nationwide war. 
Perhaps she would be sympathetic and give a favorable report to Dr. 
Gaul on her return if he made a good impression. Making an effort to 
engage her might pay off. He remembered that the jabberjays were all 
male and couldn’t reproduce with one another. “So these jabberjays, 
they were the actual birds you used for surveillance during the war?” 

“Mm-hmm. These were my babies. Never thought I’d see them 
again. The general consensus was they wouldn’t last the winter. The 
genetically engineered often struggle in the wild. But they were 
strong, my birds, and nature has a mind of its own,” she said. 

Bug reached the lowest branch and handed down the cage holding 
the jabberjay. “We should leave them in the traps for now.” It wasn’t 
a question, just a remark. 

“Yes. It may help reduce the stress of the transition,” agreed Dr. 
Kay. 


Bug nodded, slid to the ground, and accepted another fresh trap 


from Coriolanus. Without asking, he made for a second tree. Dr. Kay 
watched approvingly. “Some people just understand birds.” 

Coriolanus felt, unequivocally, that he would never be one of 
those people, but surely he could pretend to be for a few hours. He 
squatted down beside the trap and examined the jabberjay, which 
chattered away. “You know, I never quite grasped how these worked.” 
Not that he’d made any effort to find out. “I know they recorded 
conversations, but how did you control them?” 

“They’re trained to respond to audio commands. If we’re lucky, I 
can show you.” Dr. Kay pulled a small rectangular device from her 
pocket. Several colored buttons protruded from it, none of which were 
marked, but maybe age and use had worn the markings away. She 
knelt down across the cage from him and studied the bird with more 
affection than Coriolanus felt befitted a scientist. “Isn’t he beautiful?” 

Coriolanus tried to sound convincing. “Very.” 

“So, what you hear now, this chatter, it’s his own. He can mimic 
the other birds, or us, or say whatever he likes. He’s in neutral,” she 
said. 

“In neutral?” Coriolanus asked. 

“In neutral?” He heard his voice echo from the bird’s beak. “In 
neutral?” 

Even creepier when it’s your own voice, he thought, but he gave a 
delighted laugh. “That was me!” 

“That was me!” the jabberjay said in his voice, and then began to 


mimic a nearby bird. 


“It was indeed,” said Dr. Kay. “But in neutral, he’ll move on to 
something else quickly. Another voice. Usually, just a short phrase. Or 
a snatch of birdsong. Whatever catches his fancy. For surveillance, we 
needed to put him in record mode. Fingers crossed.” She pressed one 
of the buttons on her remote control. 

Coriolanus heard nothing. “Oh, no. I guess it’s too old.” 

Dr. Kay’s face, however, wore a smile. “Not necessarily. The 
command tones are inaudible to human beings but easily registered 
by the birds. Notice how quiet he is?” 

The jabberjay had fallen silent. It hopped around in its trap, 
cocking its head, pecking at things, the same in all ways except its 
verbalizing. 

“Ts it working?” asked Coriolanus. 

“We'll see.” Dr. Kay hit another button on her control, and the bird 
resumed its normal chirping. “Neutral again. Now let’s see what he’s 
retained.” She pressed a third button. 

After a brief pause, the bird began to speak. 

“Oh, no. I guess it’s too old.” 

“Not necessarily. The command tones are inaudible to human beings 
but easily registered by the birds. Notice how quiet he is?” 

“Is it working?” 

“We'll see.” 

An exact replica. But no. The rustling of the trees, the buzzing of 
the insects, the other birds, none of that had been recorded. Only the 


pure sound of the human voices. 


“Huh,” said Coriolanus, somewhat impressed. “How long can they 
record for?” 

“An hour or so, on a good day,” Dr. Kay told him. “They’re 
designed to seek out forested areas and then are attracted to human 
voices. We’d release them into the woods in record mode, then 
retrieve them with a homing signal back at the base, where we’d 
analyze the recordings. Not just here, but in Districts Eleven, Nine, 
wherever we thought they’d be of value.” 

“You couldn’t just set microphones in the trees?” Coriolanus asked. 

“You can bug buildings, but the forest is too large. The rebels 
knew the terrain well; we didn’t. They moved from place to place. The 
jabberjay is an organic, mobile recording device and, unlike a 
microphone, it’s undetectable. The rebels could catch one, kill it, eat it 
even, and all they would find is an ordinary bird,” explained Dr. Kay. 
“They are perfect, in theory.” 

“But in practice, the rebels figured out what they were,” said 
Coriolanus. “How did they manage that?” 

“Not entirely sure. Some thought they saw the birds returning to 
base, but we only recalled them in the dead of night, in which they’re 
virtually impossible to detect, and only a few at a time. More likely 
we didn’t cover our tracks. Didn’t make sure that the information we 
acted on could have had a source other than a recording in the woods. 
That would’ve brought suspicion, and even though their black 
feathers are an excellent camouflage at night, their activity after hours 


would be a clue. Then, I think, they just started experimenting with 


them, feeding us false information and seeing how we reacted.” She 
shrugged. “Or maybe they had a spy on the base. I doubt we'll ever 
really know.” 

“Why don’t you just use the homing device to call them back to 
the base now? Instead of —” Coriolanus stopped himself, not wanting 
to seem like a whiner. 

“Instead of dragging you out in this heat to be eaten alive by 
mosquitoes?” She laughed. “The whole transmission system was 
dismantled, and our old aviary seems to store supplies now. Besides, 
Td rather have my hands on them. We don’t want them to fly off and 
never come back, do we?” 

“Of course not,” Coriolanus lied. “Would they do that?” 

“Tm not sure what they’ll do, now that they’ve gone native. At the 
end of the war, I released them on neutral. It would have been cruel 
otherwise. A mute bird would have faced too many challenges. They 
not only survived but mated successfully with the mockingbirds. So 


2) 


now we have a whole new species.” Dr. Kay pointed up at a 
mockingjay in the foliage. “Mockingjays, the locals call them.” 

“And what can they do?” asked Coriolanus. 

“Not sure. I’ve been watching them for the last few days. They’ve 
no ability to mimic speech. But they have a better, more sustained 
ability to repeat music than their mothers,” she said. “Sing 


something.” 


Coriolanus only had one song in his repertoire. 


Gem of Panem, 


Mighty city, 


Through the ages, you shine anew. 


The mockingjay cocked its head and then sang back. No words, 
but an exact replica of the melody, in a voice that seemed half human, 
half bird. A few other birds in the area picked it up and wove it into a 
harmonic fabric, which again reminded him of the Covey with their 
old songs. 

“We should kill them all.” The words slipped out before he could 
stop them. 

“Kill them all? Why?” said Dr. Kay in surprise. 

“They’re unnatural.” He tried to twist the comment so it sounded 
like it came from a bird lover. “Perhaps they’ll hurt the other species.” 

“They appear to be rather compatible. And they’re all over Panem, 
wherever jabberjays and mockingbirds cohabited. We’ll take some 
back and see if they can reproduce, mockingjay with mockingjay. If 
they can’t, they’ll all be gone in a few years anyway. If they can, 
what’s one more songbird?” she said. 

Coriolanus agreed they were probably harmless. He spent the rest 
of the afternoon asking questions and treating the birds gently to 
make up for his callous suggestion. He didn’t mind the jabberjays so 
much — they seemed rather interesting from a military standpoint — 
but something about the mockingjays repelled him. He distrusted 
their spontaneous creation. Nature running amok. They should die 
out, and die out soon. 


At the end of the day, though they found themselves in possession 


of over thirty jabberjays, not one mockingjay had been caught in the 
traps. 

“Perhaps the jabberjays are less suspicious, given that the traps are 
more familiar to them. They were raised in cages, after all,” mused 
Dr. Kay. “No matter. We’ll give them a few more days and, if needed, 
we'll bring out the nets.” 

Or the guns, thought Coriolanus. 

Back at the base, he and Bug were chosen to unload the cages and 
help the scientists position them in an old hangar that was to be the 
birds’ temporary home. “Would you like to help us care for them until 
we take them back to the Capitol?” Dr. Kay asked them. Bug gave one 
of his rare smiles in assent, and Coriolanus accepted with enthusiasm. 
Besides wanting to make a good impression, it was cooler in the 
hangar, with its industrial fans. That seemed better for his heat rash, 
which had flared up impressively in the woods. At least it made for a 
change. 

Before lights-out, the bunkmates laid out Ma’s treats and made a 
plan for the next two Hob weekends, in case she didn’t send boxes 
regularly. By virtue of his trading skills, Smiley became their 
treasurer, carefully setting aside enough for two rounds of white 
liquor and donations into the Covey bucket after the show. What 
remained they divided five ways. For his share, Coriolanus took 
another six popcorn balls, of which he allowed himself only one. The 
rest he would save for the Covey. 


On Saturday morning, Coriolanus awoke to a hailstorm drumming 


away at the roof of the barrack. On the way to breakfast, the 
bunkmates pelted each other with ice balls the size of oranges, but by 
midmorning the sun came out, stronger than ever. He and Bug were 
assigned to care for the jabberjays in the afternoon. They cleaned 
cages, then fed and watered the birds under the direction of two of 
the Citadel scientists. Although some had been trapped in pairs or 
threesomes, each bird now resided in its own cage. During the latter 
part of their shift, they carefully carried the birds, one at a time, to an 
area of the hangar where a makeshift lab had been set up. The 
jabberjays were numbered, tagged, and run through basic drills to see 
if they still responded to the audio commands from the remote 
controls. All appeared to have retained the ability to record and play 
the human voice. 

Out of earshot of the scientists, Bug shook his head. “Is that good 
for them?” 

“T don’t know. It’s what they’re built to do,” said Coriolanus. 

“They'd be happier if we just left them in the woods,” said Bug. 

Coriolanus wasn’t sure Bug was right. For all he knew, they’d 
wake up in the Citadel lab in a few days, wondering what that 
atrocious ten-year nightmare in District 12 had been. Maybe they’d be 
happier in a controlled environment, where so many threats had been 
removed. “I’m sure the scientists will take good care of them.” 

After supper, he tried not to show his impatience as he waited for 
his bunkmates to ready themselves. As he’d decided to keep his 


romance secret, he planned to slip away once they’d arrived at the 


Hob. That left the problem of Sejanus. He’d lied about the money, but 
maybe he was just trying to fit in with the rest of his penniless 
bunkmates. After the incident with the map, he’d seemed genuinely 
contrite, so hopefully he’d recognized the danger of acting as a go- 
between with Lil. But would Billy Taupe or the rebels try to approach 
him again, since he’d initially expressed a willingness to help them? 
He was such a sitting duck. The easiest thing would be to take him 
along to see the Covey once they’d given the others the slip. 

“Want to come backstage with me?” he asked Sejanus quietly 
when they’d reached the Hob. 

“Am I invited?” asked Sejanus. 

“Of course,” said Coriolanus, although really only he had been. 
Maybe it was good, though. If Sejanus could keep Maude Ivory 
entertained, then Coriolanus might get a few moments alone with 
Lucy Gray. “But we'll need to shake the rest of the crew.” 

This proved to be simple, since the crowd had grown from the 
previous week, and the new batch of white liquor was particularly 
strong. Leaving Smiley, Bug, and Beanpole to haggle, they found the 
door near the stage and exited onto a narrow, empty backstreet. 

What Lucy Gray had referred to as the shed turned out to be some 
sort of old garage that could hold about eight cars. The large doors 
used for vehicle entry were chained shut, but a smaller door in the 
corner of the building directly across from the stage door was held 
open with a cinder block. When Coriolanus heard chatter and 


instruments tuning, he knew they had the right place. 


They entered and found the Covey had commandeered the space, 
making themselves at home on old tires and odd bits of furniture, 
their instrument cases and equipment scattered everywhere. Even 
with a second door in the far back corner propped open, the place felt 
like an oven. The evening light poured in through a few cracked 
windows, catching the dust that floated thick in the air. 

When she saw them, Maude Ivory ran over, dressed in her pink 
frock. “Hey there!” 

“Good evening.” Coriolanus bowed and then presented her with 
the packet of popcorn balls. “Sweets to the sweet.” 

Maude Ivory pulled back the paper and gave a little hop on one 
foot before she dipped into a curtsy. “Thank you kindly. I’ll sing you a 
special song tonight!” 

“I came with no other hope,” said Coriolanus. It was funny how 
the society talk of the Capitol seemed natural with the Covey. 

“Okay, but I can’t say your name, because you're a secret,” she 
giggled. 

Maude Ivory ran over to Lucy Gray, who sat cross-legged on an 
old desk, tuning her guitar. She smiled down at the child’s excited 
face but said sternly, “Save them for after.” Maude Ivory skipped over 
to show her treasure to the rest of the band. Sejanus joined them 
while Coriolanus waved in passing and headed for Lucy Gray. “You 
didn’t need to do that. You’re going to spoil her.” 

“Just trying to get some happy in her head,” he said. 


“How about my head?” teased Lucy Gray. Coriolanus leaned over 


and kissed her. “Okay, that’s a start.” She scooted over and patted the 
desk beside her. 

Coriolanus sat and checked out the shed. “What’s this place?” 

“Right now it’s our break room. We come here before and after the 
show and when we go offstage between numbers,” she told him. 

“But who owns it?” He hoped they weren’t trepassing. 

Lucy Gray seemed unconcerned. “No idea. We’ll just perch here 
until they shoo us off.” 

Birds. Always birds with her, when it came to the Covey. Singing, 
perching, feathers in their hats. Pretty birds all. He told her about his 
assignment with the jabberjays, thinking she might be impressed that 
he’d been singled out to work with them, but it only seemed to make 
her sad. 

“T hate to think of them caged up, when they’ve had a taste of 
freedom,” Lucy Gray said. “What do they expect to find back in their 
labs?” 

“T don’t know. If their weapons still work?” he guessed. 

“Sounds like torture, having someone controlling your voice like 
that.” Her hand reached up to touch her throat. 

Coriolanus thought that a bit dramatic but tried to sound 
comforting. “I don’t think there’s a human equivalent.” 

“Really? Do you always feel free to speak your mind, Coriolanus 
Snow?” she asked, giving him a quizzical look. 

Free to speak his mind? Of course, he did. Well, within reason. He 


didn’t go around shooting his mouth off about every little thing. What 


did she mean? She meant what he thought about the Capitol. And the 
Hunger Games. And the districts. The truth was, most of what the 
Capitol did, he supported, and the rest rarely concerned him. But if it 
came to it, he’d speak out. Wouldn’t he? Against the Capitol? Like 
Sejanus had? Even if it meant repercussions? He didn’t know, but he 
felt on the defensive. “I do. I think you should say what you think.” 

“That’s what my daddy thought, too. And he ended up with more 
bullet holes than I could count on my fingers,” she said. 

What was she implying? Even if she didn’t say so, he’d bet those 
bullets came from a Peacekeeper’s gun. Perhaps from someone 
dressed exactly as Coriolanus was now. “And my father was killed by 
a rebel sniper.” 

Lucy Gray sighed. “Now you’re mad.” 

“No.” But he was. He tried to swallow his anger. “I’m just tired. 
I’ve been looking forward to seeing you all week. And I’m sorry about 
your father — I’m sorry about my father — but I don’t run Panem.” 

“Lucy Gray!” Maude Ivory called across the shed. “It’s time!” The 
Covey had begun to assemble by the door, instruments in hand. 

“I better go.” Coriolanus slid off the desk. “Have a good show.” 

“Will I see you after?” she asked. 

He brushed off his uniform. “I have to get back for curfew.” 

Lucy Gray rose and swung her guitar strap over her head. “I see. 
Well, tomorrow we’re planning a trip to the lake, if you’re free.” 

“The lake?” Were there actually pleasurable destinations in this 


miserable place? 


“It’s in the woods. A bit of a hike, but the water’s fine for 
swimming,” she said. “Sure would like you to come along. Bring 
Sejanus, too. We’d have the whole day.” 

He wanted to go. To be with her for a whole day. He was still 
upset, but it was stupid. She hadn’t accused him of anything, really. 
The conversation had just gotten off track. It was all on account of 
those stupid birds. She was reaching out; did he really want to push 
her away? He saw her so little he could not afford moodiness. “All 
right. We’ll come after breakfast.” 

“Okay, then.” She planted a kiss on his cheek and joined the rest 
of the Covey as they left the shed. 

Back in the Hob, he and Sejanus pushed their way through the dim 
interior, the air heavy with sweat and liquor. They found their 
bunkmates in the same spot as the week before. Bug had secured 
crates for them, and Coriolanus and Sejanus settled in on either side 
of him, each taking a swig from the communal bottle. 

Maude Ivory scampered out to introduce the band. The music 
began as soon as the Covey had taken the stage. 

Coriolanus leaned against the wall and made up for lost time with 
the white liquor. He wasn’t going to see Lucy Gray after, so why not 
get a little drunk? The knot of anger in his chest began to unwind as 
he stared at her. So attractive, so engaging, so alive. He began to feel 
bad about losing his temper, and had trouble even remembering what 
shed said to set him off. Maybe nothing at all. Itd been a long, 


stressful week, with the test, and the birds, and Sejanus’s foolishness. 


He deserved to enjoy himself. 

He knocked back several more swallows and felt friendlier toward 
the world. Tunes, familiar and new, washed over him. Once he caught 
himself singing along with the audience and stopped self-consciously 
before he realized no one cared, or was sober enough to remember 
much if they did. 

At some point, Barb Azure, Tam Amber, and Clerk Carmine left 
the stage, apparently to take a break in the shed, leaving Maude Ivory 
up on her box at the mic with Lucy Gray strumming beside her. 

“T promised a friend I’d sing him something special tonight, so this 
is it,” Maude Ivory chirped. “Every one of us Covey owes our name to 
a ballad, and this one belongs to this pretty lady right here!” She held 
out a hand to Lucy Gray, who curtsied to scattered applause. “It’s a 
really old one by some man named Wordsworth. We mixed it up a 
little, so it makes better sense, but you still need to listen close.” She 
pressed her finger to her lips, and the audience settled down. 

Coriolanus gave his head a shake and tried to focus. If this was 
Lucy Gray’s song, he wanted to pay careful attention so he could say 
something nice about it tomorrow. 

Maude Ivory nodded to Lucy Gray for her intro and began to sing 


in a solemn voice: 


Oft I had heard of Lucy Gray: 
And, when I crossed the wild, 
I chanced to see at break of day 


The solitary child. 


No mate, no comrade Lucy knew; 
She dwelt where none abide, 
— The sweetest thing that ever grew 


Upon the mountainside! 


Okay, so there was a little girl who lived on a mountain. And 


apparently had trouble making friends. 


You yet may spy the fawn at play 
The hare among the green; 
But the sweet face of Lucy Gray 


Will never more be seen. 


And she died. How? He had a feeling he was about to find out. 


“To-night will be a stormy night — 
You to the town must go; 
And take a lantern, Child, to light 


Your mother through the snow.” 


“That, Father! Will I gladly do: 
Tis scarcely afternoon — 
The village clock has just struck two, 


And yonder is the moon!” 


At this the Father turned his hook, 
To kindling for the day; 
He plied his work; — and Lucy took 


The lantern on her way. 


As carefree as a mountain doe: 
A fresh, new path she broke 
Her feet dispersed the powdery snow, 


That rose up just like smoke. 


The storm came on before its time: 
She wandered up and down; 
And many a hill did Lucy climb: 


But never reached the town. 


Ah. Lots of nonsense words, but she got lost in the snow. Well, no 
wonder, if they sent her out into a snowstorm. And then she probably 


froze to death. 


The wretched parents all that night 
Went shouting far and wide; 
But there was neither sound nor sight 


To serve them as a guide. 


At daybreak on a hill they stood 
That overlooked the scene; 
And thence they saw the bridge of wood, 


That spanned a deep ravine. 


They wept — and, turning homeward, cried, 


“In heaven we all shall meet”; 


— When in the snow the mother spied 


The print of Lucy’s feet. 


Oh, good. They found her footprints. Happy ending. It was one of 
those silly things, like that song Lucy Gray sung about a man they 
thought had frozen to death. They tried to cremate him in an oven, 


but he only thawed out and was fine. Sam Somebody. 


Then downwards from the steep hill’s edge 
They tracked the footmarks small; 
And through the broken hawthorn hedge, 


And by the long stone-wall; 


And then an open field they crossed: 
The marks were still the same; 
They tracked them on, not ever lost; 


And to the bridge they came. 


They followed from the snowy bank 
Those footmarks, one by one, 
Into the middle of the plank; 


And further there were none! 


Wait? What? She vanished into thin air? 


— Yet some maintain that to this day 
She is a living child; 


That you may see sweet Lucy Gray 


Upon the lonesome wild. 


O’er rough and smooth she trips along, 
And never looks behind; 
And sings a solitary song 


That whistles in the wind. 


Oh, a ghost story. Ugh. Boo. So ridiculous. Well, he’d try hard to 
love it when he saw the Covey tomorrow. But, really, who named 
their child after a ghost girl? Although, if the girl was a ghost, where 
was her body? Maybe she got tired of her negligent parents sending 
her into blizzards and ran off to live in the wild. But then, why didn’t 
she grow up? He couldn’t make sense of it, and the white liquor 
wasn’t helping. It reminded him of the time he hadn’t understood the 
poem in rhetoric class and Livia Cardew had humiliated him in front 
of everyone. What a dreadful song. Maybe no one would mention 
it.... No, they would. Maude Ivory would expect a response. So he’d 
say it was brilliant and leave it at that. What if she wanted to talk 
about it? 

Coriolanus decided to put it to Sejanus, who’d always been good at 
rhetoric, just to see if he had any thoughts. 

But when he leaned across Bug, he found Sejanus’s crate was 


empty. 


> 


Coriolanus scanned the area, trying to hide his growing anxiety. 
Where was Sejanus? Adrenaline fought with the white liquor for 
control of his brain. He’d been so steeped in music and alcohol that he 
really didn’t know when Sejanus had disappeared. What if he hadn’t 
had a change of heart about Lil? Was he out there in the crowd, 
conspiring with the rebels at this very moment? 

He waited for the audience to finish applauding Maude Ivory and 
Lucy Gray before he rose to his feet. Just as he began to make his way 
to the door, he saw Sejanus returning in the hazy light. 

“Where’ve you been?” Coriolanus asked. 

“Outside. That white liquor runs right through me.” Sejanus sat on 
his crate and turned his attention to the stage. 

Coriolanus resumed his seat as well, his eyes on the entertainment, 
his thoughts anywhere but. White liquor didn’t run through anyone. It 
was too strong, the amount consumed too small. Another lie. What 
did that mean? That he couldn’t let Sejanus out of his sight for one 


second now? Throughout the rest of the show, he kept shooting 


sideways glances at him to make sure he didn’t sneak off again. He 
stayed close after Maude Ivory collected money in her beribboned 
basket, but Sejanus seemed focused on helping Bug steer a drunken 
Beanpole back to the base. No opportunity presented itself for further 
discussion. If, in fact, Sejanus had slipped away to plot with the 
rebels, Coriolanus’s directly confronting him after the Billy Taupe 
incident had obviously failed. A new strategy was clearly called for. 

Sunday dawned too brightly for Coriolanus’s throbbing head. He 
threw up the white liquor and stood in the shower until his eyes 
focused properly again. The greasy eggs at the mess hall were 
unthinkable, so he nibbled on his toast while Sejanus finished both of 
their helpings, only confirming Coriolanus’s suspicions that he’d 
consumed next to no alcohol the night before, certainly not enough to 
have it run through him. Their three bunkmates had not even 
managed to get up for breakfast. Until he thought of a better 
approach, he’d have to watch him like a hawk, especially when they 
left the base. Today, anyway, he’d need a companion to go to the 
lake. 

Although Coriolanus’s own enthusiasm had waned, Sejanus 
cheerfully accepted the invitation. “Sure, it sounds like a holiday. Let’s 
take some ice!” While Sejanus talked Cookie out of another plastic 
bag, Coriolanus went to the clinic for an aspirin. They met up at the 
guardhouse and then set out. 

Not knowing a shortcut to the Seam, they returned to the town 


square and retraced their steps from the previous week. Coriolanus 


considered attempting another heart-to-heart with Sejanus, but if the 
threat of being found guilty of treason didn’t move him, what would? 
And he didn’t know for sure that he’d been conspiring with the rebels. 
Maybe he really had just needed to take a piss last night, in which 
case accusing him would only make him defensive. The only real 
evidence he had was the hidden money, and maybe Strabo had 
insisted he take it but Sejanus was determined never to use it. He 
didn’t value money, and munitions money was probably burdensome 
to him. It might be a point of honor with him, to make it on his own. 

If Lucy Gray was still upset about their tiff, she didn’t show it. She 
greeted him at the back door with a kiss and a glass of cold water to 
tide him over until they reached the lake. “It’s two to three hours, 
depending on the briars, but it’s worth it.” 

For once, the Covey left their instruments behind. Barb Azure 
stayed at home, too, to keep an eye on things. She sent them off with 
a bucket containing a jug of water, a loaf of bread, and an old blanket. 

“She just started seeing a gal down the road,” confided Lucy Gray 
when they were out of earshot of the house. “Probably glad to have 
the place to themselves for the day.” 

Tam Amber led the rest of them across the Meadow and into the 
woods. Clerk Carmine, Maude Ivory, and Sejanus formed a line 
behind him, leaving Lucy Gray and Coriolanus to bring up the rear. 
There was no path. They followed single file, stepping over fallen 
trees, pushing aside branches, trying to skirt the prickly bushes that 


popped up in the undergrowth. Within ten minutes, nothing remained 


of District 12 but the acrid smell from the mines. Within twenty, even 
that had been cloaked by vegetation. The canopy of trees provided 
shade from the sun but little respite from the heat. The hum of 
insects, chatter of squirrels, and birdsong filled the air, undisturbed by 
their presence. 

Even with two days of bird duty under his belt, Coriolanus felt 
increasingly wary the farther away they got from what passed for 
civilization out here. He wondered what other creatures — larger, 
more powerful, and fanged — might be lurking in the trees. He had 
no weapon of any kind. After that realization, he pretended to need a 
walking stick and stopped a moment to strip a sturdy fallen branch of 
its excess limbs. 

“How does he know the way?” he asked Lucy Gray, nodding ahead 
to Tam Amber. 

“We all know the way,” she said. “It’s our second home.” 

As no one else acted concerned, he trooped along for what seemed 
like an eternity, happy when Tam Amber pulled the group up. But he 
only said, “About halfway.” They passed around the bag of ice, 
drinking what had melted and sucking on the remaining cubes. 

Maude Ivory complained of a pain in her foot and pulled off her 
cracked, brown shoe to show a good-sized blister. “These shoes don’t 
walk right.” 

“They’re an old pair of Clerk Carmine’s. We’re trying to make 
them last the summer,” said Lucy Gray, examining the little foot with 


a frown. 


“They’re too tight,” said Maude Ivory. “I want herring boxes like 
in the song.” 

Sejanus crouched, offering her his back. “How about a ride 
instead?” 

Maude Ivory scampered aboard. “Watch out for my head!” 

Once the precedent was set, they took turns carrying the little girl. 


No longer needing to exert herself, she used her lungs for singing. 


In a cavern, in a canyon, 
Excavating for a mine, 
Dwelt a miner, forty-niner 


And his daughter, Clementine. 


Light she was and like a fairy, 
And her shoes were number nine. 
Herring boxes, without topses, 


Sandals were for Clementine. 


To Coriolanus’s dismay, a mockingjay chorus picked up the 
melody from high in the branches. He’d not expected them to be out 
this far — the things were positively infesting the woods. But Maude 
Ivory was delighted and kept the racket going. Coriolanus carried her 
the final leg and distracted her by thanking her for the Lucy Gray 
song the night before. 

“What’d you make of it?” she asked. 


He dodged the question. “I liked it very much. You were 


fantastic.” 

“Thanks, but I meant the song. Do you think people really see 
Lucy Gray, or they’re just dreaming her?” she said. “Because I think 
they really see her. Only now, she flies like a bird.” 

“Does she?” Coriolanus felt better that the cryptic song was at 
least subject to debate, and he wasn’t too dim to grasp the one erudite 
interpretation. 

“Well, how else can she not make footprints?” she said. “I think 
she flies around and tries not to meet people, because they’d kill her 
because she’s different.” 

“Yeah, she’s different. She’s a ghost, bonehead,” said Clerk 
Carmine. “Ghosts don’t leave footprints, because they’re like air.” 

“Then where’s her body?” asked Coriolanus, feeling that at least 
Maude Ivory’s version made some sense. 

“She fell off the bridge and died, only it’s so far down, no one 
could see her. Or maybe there was a river and it washed her away,” 
said Clerk Carmine. “Anyway, she’s dead and she’s haunting the place. 
How can she fly without wings?” 

“She didn’t fall off the bridge! The snow would look different 
where she was standing!” Maude Ivory insisted. “Lucy Gray, which is 
it?” 

“Its a mystery, sweetheart. Just like me. That’s why it’s my song,” 
Lucy Gray answered. 

By the time they arrived at the lake, Coriolanus was panting and 


parched, and his rash burned from his sweat. When the Covey 


stripped down to their undergarments and plunged into the water, he 
lost no time in following suit. He waded out, and the cold water 
embraced him, clearing the cobwebs from his head and soothing his 
rash. He swam well, having been taught from an early age in school, 
but had never tried it anywhere but a pool. The muddy lake floor 
dropped off quickly, and he had a sense of deep water. He cruised out 
to the middle of the lake and floated on his back, taking in the 
scenery. The woods rose up all around, and although there seemed to 
be no access road, small, broken houses dotted the banks. Most were 
beyond repair, but a solid-looking concrete structure still had a roof, 
and a door shut tight against the wild. A family of ducks swam by a 
few feet away, and he could spot fish down below his toes. Concern 
over what else might be swimming around him prompted him to head 
back to shore, where the Covey had already pulled Sejanus into some 
kind of keep-away game, using a large pinecone for the ball. 
Coriolanus joined in, glad to be doing something just for fun. The 
strain of being a full-fledged adult every day had grown tiresome. 

After a brief rest, Tam Amber made a couple of fishing poles, 
trimming down tree branches and attaching thread and homemade 
hooks. While Clerk Carmine dug for worms, Maude Ivory enlisted 
Sejanus to pick berries. 


2) 


“Stay away from that patch near the rocks,” warned Lucy Gray. 
“Snakes like it there.” 
“She always knows where they’ll be,” Maude Ivory told Sejanus as 


she led him away. “She catches them in her hands, but they scare 


2) 


me. 

That left Coriolanus with Lucy Gray to collect dry wood for a fire. 
It all excited him a little, the swimming half-naked among wild 
creatures, the building of the fire in the open air, the unorchestrated 
time with Lucy Gray. She had a box of matches, but they were dear 
and she said she had to make do with just one. When the flame caught 
in a pile of dry leaves, he sat close to her on the ground as they fed it 
first the twigs, then larger scraps of wood, feeling happier to be alive 
than he had in weeks. 

Lucy Gray leaned into his shoulder. “Listen, I’m sorry if I upset you 
last night. I wasn’t laying my daddy’s death on you. We were both just 
kids when that happened.” 

“I know. I’m sorry if I overreacted. It’s just, I can’t pretend Pm 
someone I’m not. I don’t agree with everything the Capitol does, but I 
am Capitol, and on the whole I think we’re right about needing 
order,” said Coriolanus. 

“The Covey believe you’re put on earth to reduce the misery, not 
add to it. Do you think the Hunger Games are right?” she asked. 

“Pm not even sure why we do them, to be honest. But I do think 
people are forgetting the war too fast. What we did to each other. 
What we’re capable of. Districts and Capitol both. I know the Capitol 
must seem hard-line out here, but we’re just trying to keep things 
under control. Otherwise, there’d be chaos and people running around 
killing each other, like in the arena.” This was the first time he’d tried 


to put these thoughts into words with anyone other than Dr. Gaul. He 


felt a little unsteady, like a toddler learning to walk, but he felt the 
independence of getting on his feet as well. 

Lucy Gray drew back a bit. “That’s what you think people would 
do?” 

“I do. Unless there’s law, and someone enforcing it, I think we 
might as well be animals,” he said with more assurance. “Like it or 
not, the Capitol is the only thing keeping anyone safe.” 

“Hm. So they keep me safe. And what do I give up for that?” she 
asked. 

Coriolanus poked at the fire with a stick. “Give up? Why, 
nothing.” 

“The Covey did,” she said. “Can’t travel. Can’t perform without 
their say-so. Can only sing certain types of songs. Fight getting round 
up, and you get shot dead like my daddy. Try to keep your family 
together, and you get your head broken like my mama. What if I think 
that price is too high to pay? Maybe my freedom’s worth the risk.” 

“So, your family were rebels after all.” Coriolanus wasn’t really 
surprised. 

“My family were Covey, first and last,” Lucy Gray asserted. “Not 
district, not Capitol, not rebel, not Peacekeeper, just us. And you’re 
like us. You want to think for yourself. You push back. I know because 
of what you did for me in the Games.” 

Well, she had him there. If the Hunger Games were thought 
necessary by the Capitol, and if he had tried to thwart them, had he 


not refuted the Capitol’s authority? Pushed back, as she said? Not like 


Sejanus, in outright defiance. But in a quieter, subtler way of his own? 
“Here’s what I believe. If the Capitol wasn’t in charge, we wouldn’t 
even be having this conversation, because we’d have destroyed 
ourselves by now.” 

“People have been around a long time without the Capitol. I 
expect they’ll be here a long time after,” she concluded. 

Coriolanus thought of the dead cities he’d passed on the journey to 
District 12. She claimed the Covey had traveled, so she must have 
seen them as well. “Not many of them. Panem used to be magnificent. 
Look at it now.” 

Clerk Carmine brought Lucy Gray a plant he’d uprooted from the 
lake, with pointy leaves and small white flowers. “Hey, you found 
some katniss. Good work, CC.” Coriolanus wondered if he meant it to 
be decorative, like the Grandma’am’s roses, but she immediately 
examined the roots, from which small tubers hung. “Little too early 
yet.” 

“Yeah,” Clerk Carmine agreed. 

“For what?” asked Coriolanus. 

“For eating. In a few weeks, these will grow into decent-sized 
potatoes, and we can roast them,” said Lucy Gray. “Some people call 
them swamp potatoes, but I like katniss better. Has a nice ring to it.” 

Tam Amber appeared with several fish that he cleaned, gutted, 
and cut up into pieces. He wrapped the fish in leaves and sprigs of 
some kind of herb he’d picked, and Lucy Gray arranged them in the 


embers of the fire. By the time Maude Ivory and Sejanus arrived with 


their bucket loaded with blackberries, the fish were cooked through. 
With the hike and the swimming, Coriolanus’s appetite had returned. 
He ate every morsel of his share of the fish, bread, and berries. Then 
Sejanus brought out a surprise — a half dozen of Ma’s sugar cookies 
he’d saved as his share of the box. 

After lunch they spread out the blanket under the trees, half lying 
on it, half propped against the trunks, and stared up at the fleecy 
clouds in the brilliant sky. 

“Tve never seen a sky quite that color,” said Sejanus. 

“It’s azure,” Maude Ivory told him. “Like Barb Azure. That’s her 
color.” 

“Her color?” asked Coriolanus. 

“Sure. We each get our first name from a ballad and our second 
from a color.” She popped up to explain. “Barb is from ‘Barbara Allen’ 
and azure blue like the sky. Me, I’m ‘Maude Clare’ and ivory like 
piano keys. And Lucy Gray is special, because her whole name came 
right from her ballad. Lucy and Gray.” 

“That’s right. Gray like a winter day,” Lucy Gray said with a smile. 

Coriolanus had not really noticed the connection before; he’d just 
thought they had odd Covey names. Ivory and amber brought to mind 
old ornaments in the Grandma’am’s jewelry box. And azure, taupe, 
and carmine weren’t colors he recognized. As to their ballads, who 
knew where those had come from? It all seemed a strange way to 
name your child. 


Maude Ivory poked him in the stomach. “Your name sounds 


Covey.” 

“How so?” he said with a laugh. 

“Because of the snow part. White as snow. Snow white,” giggled 
Maude Ivory. “Is there a ballad with Coriolanus in it?” 

“Not that I know of. Why don’t you write one about me?” he said, 
poking her back. “‘The Ballad of Coriolanus Snow.” 

Maude Ivory sat down on his stomach. “Lucy Gray’s the writer. 
Why don’t you ask her?” 

“Stop pestering him, you.” Lucy Gray pulled Maude Ivory beside 
her. “You should probably take a nap before we head home.” 

“People will carry me,” said Maude Ivory, wriggling to get free. 


“And Pll sing for them!” 
Oh, my darling, oh, my darling — 


“Oh, pipe down,” said Clerk Carmine. 

“Come on, try to lie down,” said Lucy Gray. 

“Well, I will if you sing to me. Sing me the one from when I had 
croup.” She flattened out with her head on Lucy Gray’s lap. 

“Okay, but only if you hush.” Lucy Gray stroked Maude Ivory’s 
hair back behind her ear and waited for her to settle down before she 


began to sing soothingly. 


Deep in the meadow, under the willow 
A bed of grass, a soft green pillow 


Lay down your head, and close your sleepy eyes 


And when again they open, the sun will rise. 


Here it’s safe, here it’s warm 
Here the daisies guard you from every harm 
Here your dreams are sweet and tomorrow brings them true 


Here is the place where I love you. 


The song quieted Maude Ivory, and Coriolanus felt his anxieties 
melt away. Full of fresh food, shaded by the trees, Lucy Gray singing 
softly beside him, he began to appreciate nature. It really was 
beautiful out here. The crystal clean air. The lush colors. He felt so 
relaxed and free. What if this was his life: rising whenever, catching 
his food for the day, and hanging out with Lucy Gray by the lake? 
Who needed wealth and success and power when they had love? 


Didn’t it conquer all? 


Deep in the meadow, hidden far away 
A cloak of leaves, a moonbeam ray 
Forget your woes and let your troubles lay 


And when again it’s morning, they'll wash away. 


Here it’s safe, here it’s warm 
Here the daisies guard you from every harm 
Here your dreams are sweet and tomorrow brings them true 


Here is the place where I love you. 


Coriolanus was on the verge of dozing off when the mockingjays, 


who’d listened quite respectfully to Lucy Gray’s rendition, began one 
of their own. He felt his body tense and the pleasant drowsiness drain 
away. But the Covey were all smiles as the birds ran off with the song. 

“Like sandstones to diamonds, that’s what we are to them,” said 
Tam Amber. 

“Well... they practice more,” said Clerk Carmine, and the others 
laughed. 

Listening to the birds, Coriolanus noticed the absence of 
jabberjays. The only explanation he could think of was that the 
mockingjays had begun to reproduce without them, either with one 
another or with the local mockingbirds. This elimination of the 
Capitol birds from the equation deeply disturbed him. Here they were, 
multiplying like rabbits, completely unchecked. Unauthorized. Co- 
opting Capitol technology. He didn’t like it one bit. 

Maude Ivory finally napped, curling up against Lucy Gray, her 
bare feet twisted in the blanket. Coriolanus stayed with them while 
the others headed back into the lake for another dip. After a while, 
Clerk Carmine brought over a bright blue feather he’d found along the 
bank and set it on the blanket for Maude Ivory, gruffly saying, “Don’t 
tell her where it came from.” 

“Okay. That’s sweet, CC,” said Lucy Gray. “She'll love it.” When 
he’d run back to the water, she shook her head. “I worry about him. 
He misses Billy Taupe.” 

“Do you?” Coriolanus propped himself up on his elbow to watch 


her face. 


She didn’t hesitate. “No. Not since the reaping.” 

The reaping. He remembered the ballad she’d sung for the 
interview. “What did it mean when you said you were the bet he lost 
in the reaping?” 

“He bet he could have us both, me and Mayfair,” she said. “It was 
a gamble. Mayfair found out about me, I found out about her. She had 
her pa call my name in the reaping. I don’t know what she told him. 
Certainly not that Billy Taupe was her flame. Something else. We’re 
outsiders here, so it’s easy to lie about us.” 

“Pm surprised they’re together,” said Coriolanus. 

“Well, Billy Taupe’s always going on about how he’s happiest 
alone, but what he really wants is some girl to take care of him. I 
guess Mayfair seemed a likely candidate for the job, so he went after 
her. No one can pour on the charm like Billy Taupe. That girl didn’t 
stand a chance. Besides, she’s got to be lonely. No brothers or sisters. 
No friends. Miners hate her family. Driving up in their flashy car to 
watch the hangings.” Maude Ivory stirred, and Lucy Gray smoothed 
her hair. “People are suspicious of us, but they despise them.” 

He didn’t like the way her rage against Billy Taupe had faded. “Is 
he trying to get back with you?” 

She picked up the feather and twirled it between her thumb and 
forefinger before she answered. “Oh, sure. Came to my meadow 
yesterday. Big plans. Wants me to meet him at the hanging tree and 
run off.” 


“The hanging tree?” Coriolanus thought of Arlo swinging while the 


birds mocked his final words. “Why there?” 

“That’s where we used to go. It’s the one place in District Twelve 
you're guaranteed some privacy,” she said. “Wants us to go north. He 
thinks there’s people up there. Free people. Says we'll find them and 
then come back for the others. He’s piling up supplies, not sure with 
what. But what does it matter? I can’t ever trust him again.” 

Coriolanus felt jealousy tighten his throat. He thought she’d 
banished Billy Taupe, and here she was casually telling him about 
some chance meeting in the Meadow. Only it hadn’t been chance. 
He’d known where to find her. How long had they been there, with 
him pouring on the charm, tempting her to run away? Why had she 
stayed to listen? “Trust is important.” 

“T think it’s more important than love. I mean, I love all kinds of 
things I don’t trust. Thunderstorms... white liquor... snakes. 
Sometimes I think I love them because I can’t trust them, and how 
mixed up is that?” Lucy Gray took a deep breath. “I trust you, 
though.” 

He sensed this was a difficult admission for her to make, perhaps 
harder than a declaration of love, but it didn’t erase the image of Billy 
Taupe wooing her in the Meadow. “Why?” 

“Why? Well, PII have to give that one some thought.” When she 
kissed him, he kissed her back, but without much conviction. These 
new developments upset him. Maybe it was a mistake to be getting so 
attached to her. And something else bothered him, too. It was the 


song she’d been playing in the Meadow that first day. About the 


hanging, he’d thought then, but it had mentioned meeting up at the 
hanging tree as well. If that was their old place, why was she still 
singing about it? Maybe she was only using him to get Billy Taupe 
back. Playing the two of them off each other. 

Maude Ivory awoke and admired her feather, which she had Lucy 
Gray fix in her hair. They readied themselves to go back, collecting 
the blanket, the jug, and the bucket. Coriolanus volunteered to carry 
the little girl for the first leg of the trip. When they’d left the lake, he 
dropped back behind the others to ask her, “So, do you see Billy 
Taupe these days?” 

“Oh, no,” she said. “He’s not one of us anymore.” That pleased 
him, but it also suggested that Lucy Gray had kept her meeting with 
him a secret from the Covey, which made him suspicious again. 
Maude Ivory bent over his ear and whispered, “Don’t let him around 
Sejanus. He’s sweet, and Billy Taupe feeds on sweet.” 

Coriolanus bet he fed on money, too. Just how was he paying for 
supplies for his escape? 

Tam Amber took a slightly different route, detouring to berry 
patches so they could fill the bucket along the way. When they’d 
almost reached the town, Clerk Carmine spotted a tree loaded with 
apples just beginning to ripen. Tam Amber and Sejanus went on, 
carrying Maude Ivory and the gear between them. Clerk Carmine 
climbed the tree and threw down apples, and Coriolanus piled them 
into Lucy Gray’s skirt. It was early evening by the time they reached 


the house. Coriolanus felt exhausted and ready to return to the base, 


but Barb Azure sat alone at the kitchen table, picking through berries. 
“Tam Amber took Maude Ivory to the Hob to see if they could trade 
some berries for some shoes. I told them to go ahead and get warm 
ones, it’ll be cold before you know it.” 

“And Sejanus?” Coriolanus looked into the backyard. 

“He left a few minutes after. Said he’d meet you there, too,” she 
said. 

The Hob. Coriolanus said his good-byes immediately. “I’ve got to 
go. If they see Sejanus there without another Peacekeeper, he’ll get 
written up. So will I, for that matter. We have to stay in pairs. He 
knows that — I don’t know what he’s thinking.” But in truth, he 
thought he knew exactly what Sejanus was thinking. What a great 
opportunity to visit the Hob without Coriolanus policing him. He 
pulled Lucy Gray in for a kiss. “Today was wonderful. Thank you for 
it. [ll see you next Saturday at the shed?” He shot out the door before 
she could reply. 

He walked, double time, straight to the Hob, and looked in the 
open door. A dozen or so people wandered around, turning over 
merchandise at the stalls. Maude Ivory sat on a barrel while Tam 
Amber laced up a boot for her. At the far end of the warehouse, 
Sejanus stood at a counter, engaged in conversation with a woman. As 
Coriolanus approached, he made note of her wares. Miners’ lamps. 
Picks. Axes. Knives. Suddenly, he realized what Sejanus could buy 
with all that Capitol money. Weapons. And not just the ones laid out 


before him. He could buy guns. As if to confirm shady dealings, the 


woman broke off talking when he came into earshot. Sejanus joined 
him directly. 

“Shopping?” Coriolanus asked. 

“T was thinking of getting a pocketknife,” said Sejanus. “But she’s 
out at the moment.” 

Perfect. A lot of the soldiers carried them. There was even a game 
they played when they were off duty, where they bet money on who 
could hit a target. “I was thinking of getting one myself. Once we get 
paid.” 

“Of course, once we get paid,” agreed Sejanus, as if that had been 
understood. 

Suppressing an impulse to strike him, Coriolanus strode out of the 
Hob without acknowledging Maude Ivory and Tam Amber. He barely 
spoke on the way back as he revised his strategy. He had to find out 
what Sejanus was mixed up in. Logic had failed to induce a 
confidence. Would intimacy work? It wouldn’t hurt to try. A few 
blocks from the base, he laid a hand on Sejanus’s shoulder, bringing 
them both to a stop. “You know, Sejanus, I’m your friend. More than a 
friend. You’re the closest thing I'll ever have to a brother. And there 
are special rules for family. If you need help... I mean, if you get 
into something you can’t handle. . . I’m here.” 

Tears welled up in Sejanus’s eyes. “Thank you, Coryo. That means 
a lot. You may be the only person in the world who I actually trust.” 

Ah, trust again. The air was full of it. 


“Come here.” He pulled Sejanus into an embrace. “Just promise 


not to do anything stupid, okay?” He felt him nod in assent but knew 
the likelihood of his keeping that promise was almost nil. 

At least their busy schedule kept Sejanus under constant 
supervision, even when they left the base. Monday afternoon, they 
retrieved the traps from the trees again. Although they’d been 
undisturbed for the entire weekend, not one contained a mockingjay. 
Contrary to expectations, Dr. Kay seemed pleased by the birds. “It 
seems they’ve inherited more than advanced mimicry. They’ve 
evolved their survival skills as well. Forget replacing the cages; we 
have plenty of jabberjays. Tomorrow we’ll try the mist nets.” 

By the time the soldiers got out of the trucks on Tuesday 
afternoon, the scientists had chosen locations with heavy mockingjay 
traffic. They broke into groups — Coriolanus and Bug were with Dr. 
Kay again — and helped erect sets of poles. Between each was 
stretched a finely woven mist net designed to capture the 
mockingjays. Nearly invisible, the nets began to yield results almost 
immediately, entangling the birds and dropping them into horizontal 
rows of pockets in their mesh surfaces. Dr. Kay had given instructions 
that the nets were never to be left unsupervised and that the birds 
were to be removed immediately, to keep them from becoming too 
snarled and to make the experience as trauma-free as possible. She 
personally removed the first three mockingjays from their nets, 
carefully freeing the birds while holding them securely in her hand. 
When given the go-ahead, Bug proved to be a natural, gently 


untangling his mockingjay and placing it in a waiting cage. 


Coriolanus’s bird began a tortured screaming the minute he touched 
it, and when he gave it a squeeze designed to dissuade it, it drove its 
beak into his palm. He reflexively dropped it, and in moments it had 
vanished into the foliage. Noxious creature. Dr. Kay cleaned and 
bandaged his hand, which reminded him of how Tigris had done the 
same on reaping day when the thorn on the Grandma’am’s rose had 
punctured him. Not even two months ago. What hopes he’d had that 
day, and now look at him. Rounding up mutt spawn in the districts. 
He spent the rest of the afternoon carrying the caged birds to the 
truck. The hand didn’t excuse him from bird duty, though, and he 
resumed cleaning cages back at the hangar. 

Coriolanus began to warm up to the jabberjays. They really were 
impressive pieces of engineering. A few of the remotes lay around the 
lab, and the scientists allowed him to play with the birds once they’d 
been cataloged. “It won’t hurt anything,” one said. “In fact, they seem 
to enjoy the interaction.” Bug wouldn’t participate, but when he grew 
bored, Coriolanus made them record silly phrases and sing bits of the 
anthem, seeing how many he could operate with one remote click. Up 
to four sometimes, if their cages were close together. He always took 
care to erase them by doing a final quick recording in which he was 
silent, ensuring his voice would not end up back in the Citadel lab. He 
stopped with the singing entirely when the mockingjays began to pick 
it up, even if there was a certain satisfaction in hearing them pipe out 
praise for the Capitol. He had no way to silence them, and they could 


string one melody out endlessly. 


On the whole, he was beginning to weary of the infusion of music 
into his life. Invasion might be a better word. It seemed to be 
everywhere these days: birdsong, Covey song, bird-and-Covey song. 
Perhaps he did not share his mother’s love of music after all. At least, 
such a quantity of it. It consumed his attention greedily, demanding to 
be listened to and making it hard to think. 

By midafternoon Wednesday, they’d collected fifty mockingjays in 
total, enough to satisfy Dr. Kay. Coriolanus and Bug spent the rest of 
the day attending to the birds and shuttling the new mockingjays over 
to the lab table to be numbered and tagged. They finished before 
dinner and returned after to prepare the birds for travel to the Capitol. 
The scientists showed Coriolanus and Bug how to fasten the cloth 
covers on the cages, and then they relocated to the hovercraft, 
trusting the pair to take care of it. Coriolanus volunteered to do the 
covers while Bug carried the birds to the hovercraft and helped settle 
them in for their journey. 

Coriolanus started with the mockingjays, happy to see them go. He 
moved the cages one at a time to his work table, snapped on their 
covers, wrote the letter M and the bird’s number in chalk on the cloth, 
and handed them off. Bug was just leaving with the fiftieth cage, 
which contained a madly chirping mockingjay, when Sejanus bounced 
in the door, sounding a bit hyper. “Good news! Another delivery from 
my ma!” 

Bug, who’d been down about the birds leaving, cheered up a bit. 


“She’s the best.” 


“Pll tell her you said so.” Sejanus watched Bug move off and 
turned to Coriolanus, who’d just collected the jabberjay tagged with 
the number 1. The bird twittered away in its cage, still imitating the 
last mockingjay. Sejanus’s grin had vanished, and an anguished 
expression had taken its place. His eyes swept the hangar to ensure 
they were alone, and he spoke in a hushed voice. “Listen, we’ve only 
got a few minutes. I know you won’t approve of what I’m going to do, 
but I need you to at least understand it. After what you said the other 
day, about us being like brothers, well, I feel I owe you an 
explanation. Please, just hear me out.” 

This was it, then. The confession. Coriolanus’s entreaties for sanity 
and caution had been weighed and found insufficient. Misguided 
passion had won the day. Now was the time for the pieces to be 
explained. The money. The guns. The base map. The moment the 
whole treasonous rebel plot would be revealed. Once Coriolanus 
heard it, he’d be as good as a rebel himself. A traitor to the Capitol. 
He should panic, or run, or at least try to shut Sejanus up. But he did 
none of these things. 

Instead his hands acted on their own. Like the time he’d dropped 
the handkerchief into the tank of snakes before he’d been aware of 
deciding to do it. Now his left hand adjusted the cover of the 
jabberjay cage while his right, concealed from Sejanus’s view by his 
body, dropped to the counter, where a remote sat. Coriolanus pressed 


RECORD, and the jabberjay fell silent. 


> 


Coriolanus turned his back to the cage, leaning on the table with 
his hands, waiting. 

“Its like this,” said Sejanus, his voice rising with emotion. “Some 
of the rebels are leaving District Twelve for good. Heading north to 
start a life away from Panem. They said if I help them with Lil, I can 
go, too.” 

As if questioning the claim, Coriolanus raised his eyebrows. 

Sejanus’s words tumbled out. “I know, I know, but they need me. 
The thing is, they’re determined to free Lil and take her with them. If 
they don’t, the Capitol will hang her with the next lot of rebels they 
bring in. The plan is simple, really. The prison guards work in four- 
hour shifts. ’m going to drug a couple of my ma’s treats and give 
them to the outside guards. This medicine they gave me in the 
Capitol, it knocks you out like that —” Sejanus snapped his fingers. 
“Tl take one of their guns. The inside guards are unarmed, so I can 
force them into the interrogation room at gunpoint. It’s soundproof, so 


no one can hear them yell. Then I’ll get Lil. Her brother can get us 


through the fence. We’ll head north immediately. We should have 
hours before they discover the guards. Since we’re not going through 
the gate, they’ll assume we’re hiding on base, so they'll lock it down 
and search here first. By the time they figure it out, we'll be long 
gone. No one hurt. And no one the wiser.” 

Coriolanus dropped his head and rubbed his brow with his 
fingertips, as if trying to collect his thoughts, unsure how long he 
could refrain from talking without seeming suspicious. 

But Sejanus hurried on. “I couldn’t go without telling you. You’re 
as good to me as any brother could be. Pll never forget what you did 
for me in the arena. IIl try to figure out some way to let Ma know 
what happened to me. And my father, I suppose. Let him know the 
Plinth name lives on, if only in obscurity.” 

There it was. The Plinth name. It was enough. His left hand found 
the remote and he pressed the NEUTRAL button with his thumb. The 
jabberjay resumed the song it had been singing earlier. 

Something caught Coriolanus’s eye. “Here comes Bug.” 

“Here comes Bug,” the bird repeated in his voice. 

“Hush, you silly thing,” he told the bird, inwardly pleased it had 
resumed its normal, neutral pattern. Nothing to alert Sejanus there. 
He quickly snapped the cloth in place and marked it with J1. 

“We need another water bottle. One broke,” said Bug as he entered 
the hangar. 

“One broke,” said the bird in Bug’s voice, and then it began to 


imitate a passing crow. 


“TIl find one.” Coriolanus handed him the cage. As Bug left, 
Coriolanus crossed over to a bin where they kept supplies and began 
to dig around. Better to stay away from the other jabberjays while the 
conversation continued. If they started mimicking too much, Sejanus 
might wonder why the first bird had been so silent. Not that he really 
knew how the birds worked. Dr. Kay had not explained that to the 
group at large. 

“It sounds crazy, Sejanus. So many things could go wrong.” 
Coriolanus rattled off a list. “What if the guards don’t want your ma’s 
treats? Or one does, and collapses with the other watching? What if 
the inside guards call for help before you get them in the room? What 
if you can’t find the key to Lil’s cell? And what do you mean, her 
brother will get you through the fence? No one’s going to notice him, 
what, cutting through it?” 

“No, there’s a weak spot in the fence behind the generator. It’s 
already loose or something. Look, I know a lot of things have to go 
right, but I think they will.” Sejanus sounded as if he was trying to 
convince himself. “They have to. And if they don’t, then they’ll arrest 
me now instead of later, right? When I’m wrapped up in something 
worse?” 

Coriolanus shook his head unhappily. “I can’t change your mind?” 

Sejanus was adamant. “No, I’ve decided. I can’t stay here. We both 
know it. Sooner or later ’ll snap. I can’t do the Peacekeeping work in 
good conscience, and I can’t keep endangering you with my crazy 


plans.” 


“But how will you live out there?” Coriolanus found a box with a 
new water bottle. 

“We have some supplies. I’m a good shot,” said Sejanus. 

He had not mentioned the rebels having guns, but apparently they 
did. “And when the bullets run out?” 

“We'll figure something out. Fish, net birds. They say there are 
people in the north,” Sejanus told him. 

Coriolanus thought of Billy Taupe luring Lucy Gray to that 
imaginary outpost in the wilderness. Had he heard about it from the 
rebels, or had they heard about it from him? 

“But even if there aren’t, there’s no Capitol,” Sejanus continued. 
“And that’s the main thing for me, isn’t it? Not this district or that. 
Not student or Peacekeeper. It’s living in a place where they can’t 
control my life. I know it seems cowardly running away, but I’m 
hoping that once I’m out of here, maybe I can think straighter and 
come up with some way I can help the districts.” 

Fat chance, thought Coriolanus. It will be amazing if you survive the 
winter. He pulled the water bottle from its packaging. “Well, I guess 
all there is to say is I’ll miss you. And good luck.” He felt Sejanus 
moving in for an embrace when Bug came through the door. He held 
up the bottle. “Found one.” 

“TIl let you get back to your work.” Sejanus gave a wave and left. 

Coriolanus went on mechanically covering and marking cages 
while his mind raced. What should he do? Part of him wanted to run 


to the hovercraft and erase jabberjay number 1. Put it on PLAY, then 


NEUTRAL, then RECORD, then NEUTRAL again in swift succession so 
that it would have nothing memorized but the distant shouts of the 
soldiers on the tarmac. But then what would his options be? To try to 
dissuade Sejanus from his plan? He had no confidence that he could, 
and even if he did, it was only a matter of time before Sejanus came 
up with another scheme. To rat him out to the base commander? He 
would likely deny it, and as the only proof lay in the jabberjay’s 
memory bank, Coriolanus would have nothing to back up his 
accusation. He didn’t even know the time of the breakout, so no trap 
could be set. And where would that leave him with Sejanus? Or if it 
got out, the entire base? As a snitch, an unreliable one at that, and a 
troublemaker? 

He’d taken care not to speak while the jabberjay was recording so 
as not to incriminate himself in any way. But Dr. Gaul would get the 
reference to the arena, and she would understand the taping had been 
intentional. If he sent the bird to the Citadel, she could decide how 
best to handle the matter. Probably she’d put in a call to Strabo 
Plinth, discharge Sejanus, and send him home before he did any 
damage. Yes, that would be best for everybody. He dropped the 
remote into the bin of bird supplies. If all went well, Sejanus Plinth 
would be out of his hair in a matter of days. 

The calm proved short-lived. Coriolanus awoke after a few hours’ 
sleep from a terrible dream. He’d been in the stands of the arena, 
looking down at Sejanus, who knelt beside Marcus’s wrecked body. 


He was sprinkling it with bread crumbs, unaware that a multicolored 


army of snakes was closing in on him from all sides. Coriolanus 
screamed at him over and over, to get up, to run, but Sejanus didn’t 
seem to hear. When the snakes reached him, he had plenty of 
screaming of his own to do. 

Guilt-ridden and slick with sweat, Coriolanus realized he had not 
thought through the ramifications of sending the jabberjay. Sejanus 
could be in real trouble. He leaned over the side of his bunk and was 
reassured for a moment by the sight of Sejanus sleeping peacefully 
across the barrack from him. He was over-reacting. Most likely, the 
scientists would never even hear the recording, let alone pass it on to 
Dr. Gaul. Why would they bother to put the bird on PLAY? There was 
no reason to, really. The jabberjays had been tested at the hangar 
already. It had been a questionable act, but it would not result in 
Sejanus’s death, by snakes or otherwise. 

That thought soothed him until he realized that, in that case, he 
was back to square one and in great danger for knowing about the 
rebel plan. Lil’s rescue, the escape, even the weak spot in the fence 
behind the generator weighed on him. That chink in the Capitol 
armor. The whole idea of the rebels having secret access to the base. 
It frightened and infuriated him. This breaking of the contract. This 
invitation to chaos and all that could follow. Didn’t these people 
understand that the whole system would collapse without the 
Capitol’s control? That they all might as well run away to the north 
and live like animals, because that’s what they’d be reduced to? 


It made him hope the jabberjay delivered its message after all. But 


if the Capitol officials did, by chance, hear Sejanus’s confession, what 
would they do to him? Would buying rebel guns to use against the 
Peacekeepers be cause for execution? No, wait, he hadn’t recorded 
anything about the illegal guns. Only the part about Sejanus stealing 
the Peacekeeper’s . . . but that was bad enough. 

Maybe he was doing Sejanus a favor. If they caught him before he 
had a chance to act, maybe he could get prison time instead of a more 
severe sentence. Or, most likely, Old Plinth would buy him out of 
whatever trouble he faced. Foot the bill for a new base for District 12. 
Sejanus would get kicked out of the Peacekeepers, which would make 
him happy, and probably end up with a desk job in his father’s 
munitions empire, which would not. Miserable, but alive. And, most 
importantly, someone else’s problem. 

Sleep evaded Coriolanus for the rest of the night, and his thoughts 
turned to Lucy Gray. What would she think about him if she knew 
what he’d done to Sejanus? She’d hate him, of course. Her and her 
love of freedom for the mockingjays, for the jabberjays, for the Covey, 
for everybody. She’d probably support Sejanus’s escape plan entirely, 
especially since she’d been locked in the arena herself. He’d be a 
Capitol monster, and she’d run back to Billy Taupe, taking with her 
what little happiness he had left. 

In the morning, he climbed down from his bunk tired and 
irritable. The scientists had flown home to the Capitol the night 
before, leaving his squad to its dull routines. He dragged through the 


day, trying not to think about how, in a couple of weeks, he should be 


starting an education at the University with a full ride. Choosing his 
classes. Touring the campus. Buying his books. As to the Sejanus 
dilemma, he’d accepted that no one would ever hear the jabberjay’s 
dispatch, and he should just corner him and throttle some sense into 
him. Threaten to report him to both the commander and his father 
and carry through on that threat if he persisted. He’d had enough of 
the whole idiotic thing. Unfortunately, the day offered no opportunity 
to present his ultimatum. 

To make matters worse, Friday brought a letter from Tigris, chock- 
full of bad news. Prospective buyers and a lot of nosy people had been 
touring the Snows’ apartment. They’d received two offers, both far 
below the amount they’d need to move to the most modest 
apartments Tigris had seen. The visitors distressed the Grandma’am, 
who camped among her rosebushes in a great show of denial when 
they appeared. However, she overheard one couple, who were 
inspecting the roof, discussing how they could replace her beloved 
garden with a goldfish pond. The idea that the roses, the very symbol 
of the Snow dynasty, were to be demolished precipitated her 
downward spiral into even greater agitation and confusion. It was 
worrisome to leave her alone now. Tigris was at her wit’s end and 
asking for advice, but what advice could he give? He had failed them 
in every possible way and could think of no road out of their despair. 
Anger, impotence, humiliation — those were all he had to offer. 

By Saturday, he almost looked forward to confronting Sejanus. He 


hoped it would come to blows. Someone should pay for the indignities 


of the Snow family, and who better than a Plinth? 

Smiley, Bug, and Beanpole were as eager to go to the Hob as ever, 
although they were getting tired of spending Sundays recuperating. As 
they dressed for the evening out, the bunkmates decided to forgo the 
white liquor for some fermented apple cider, which didn’t pack as 
much punch but still gave the drinker a nice buzz. The question was 
academic for Coriolanus, who had no intention of imbibing at all. He 
wanted a clear head when he dealt with Sejanus. 

As they were leaving the barracks, they got roped into an extra 
detail by Cookie, and spent half an hour unloading a hovercraft full of 
crates. “You'll be glad about it next weekend. Commander’s birthday 
party,” he said, and slipped them a quart bottle of what turned out to 
be cheap whiskey. It was a big improvement over the local brew. 

When they arrived at the Hob, they barely had time to grab some 
crates and squeeze into a spot against the back wall before Maude 
Ivory danced onstage to introduce the Covey. Not great seats, but 
between Cookie’s whiskey and the fact that they could enjoy some of 
Ma’s treats instead of trading them, no one felt the need to complain, 
although Coriolanus privately regretted missing his time with Lucy 
Gray in the shed. He placed his crate practically on top of Sejanus’s so 
he would know if he tried to disappear again. Sure enough, about an 
hour into the show, he felt Sejanus rise and watched him move off 
toward the main door. Coriolanus counted to ten before he followed, 
trying to attract as little attention as possible, but they were near the 


exit and no one seemed to notice. 


Lucy Gray began a downbeat number, and the Covey played 


mournfully behind her. 


You come home late, 

Fall on your cot. 

You smell like something that money bought. 
We don’t have cash, or so you say. 


So where did you get it and how’d you pay? 


The sun don’t rise and set for you. 
You think so, but you’re wrong. 
You tell me lies, I can’t stay true — 


FI sell you for a song. 


The song grated on him. It sounded like another Billy Taupe- 
inspired number. Why didn’t she write something about him instead 
of dwelling on that nobody? He was the one who’d saved her life after 
Billy Taupe had bought her a ticket to the arena. 

Coriolanus stepped outside just in time to see Sejanus rounding the 
corner of the Hob. Lucy Gray’s voice poured out into the night air as 


he skirted along the side of the building. 


You get up late, 

Won't say a word. 

You been with her, that’s what I’ve heard. 
I don’t own you, so I’ve been told. 


But what do I do when the nights get cold? 


The moon don’t wane and wax for you. 
You think so, but you’re wrong. 
You cause me pain, you make me blue — 


FI sell you for a song. 


Coriolanus paused in the shadows at the back of the Hob as he 
watched Sejanus hurry through the open door of the shed. All five of 
the Covey were onstage, so who would he be looking for? Was this a 
prearranged meeting with the rebels to lock down their escape plans? 
He had no desire to walk in on a whole nest of them, and he had just 
resolved to wait it out, when the woman from the Hob, the one 
Sejanus had supposedly seen about the pocketknife, came out the door 
stuffing a wad of bills into her pocket. She disappeared down an alley, 
leaving the Hob behind. 

So that was it. Sejanus had come to give her money for weapons, 
most likely those guns he was planning to hunt with in the north. This 
seemed as good a time as any to confront him, while the contraband 
was still hot in his hands. He crept over to the shed, not wanting to 
startle Sejanus if he was handling a gun, his footsteps masked by the 


music. 


You’re here, you’re not. 

It’s more than me, 

It’s more than you, it’s more like we. 
They’re young and soft, they worry so. 


You coming or going, they need to know. 


The stars don’t shine and shoot for you. 
You think so, but you’re wrong. 
You mess with mine, I’ll hurt you, too — 


FI sell you for a song. 


During the applause that followed, Coriolanus peered around the 
shed’s open doorway. The only light came from a small lantern, the 
type he’d seen some of the coal miners holding at Arlo’s hanging, 
positioned on a crate in the back of the shed. In its glow, he could 
make out Sejanus and Billy Taupe crouched over a burlap sack, out of 
which protruded several weapons. As he took a step in, he froze, 
suddenly aware of the barrel of a shotgun positioned inches from the 
side of his rib cage. 

He drew in his breath and was beginning to raise his hands slowly 
when he heard the quick tap of shoes behind him and Lucy Gray’s 
laughter. Her hands landed on his shoulders with a “Hey! Saw you 
slip out. Barb Azure said if you —” Then she tensed, aware of the 
gunman. 

“Inside” was all he said. Coriolanus moved toward the lamp with 
Lucy Gray holding tightly to his arm. He heard the cinder block scrape 
on the cement floor and the door shut behind them. 

Sejanus leaped to his feet. “No. It’s all right, Spruce. He’s with me. 
They’re both with me.” 

Spruce moved into the lamplight. Coriolanus recognized him as 
the man who had restrained Lil the day of the hanging. The brother 


Sejanus had mentioned, no doubt. 


The rebel looked them over. “Thought we agreed this was between 
us.” 

“He’s like my brother,” said Sejanus. “He’ll cover for me when we 
run. Buy us more time.” 

Coriolanus had promised to do no such thing, but he nodded. 

Spruce redirected his barrel to Lucy Gray. “What about this one?” 

“T told you about her,” said Billy Taupe. “She’s going north with 
us. She’s my girl.” 

Coriolanus could feel Lucy Gray clench his arm, then drop it. “If 
you'll take me,” she said. 

“You two aren’t together?” said Spruce, his gray eyes moving from 
Coriolanus to Lucy Gray. Coriolanus had been wondering this as well. 
Was she really going with Billy Taupe? Had she been using him, as 
he’d suspected? 

“He’s seeing my cousin. Barb Azure. She sent me to tell him where 
to meet up tonight is all,” said Lucy Gray. 

So she’d just lied to defuse the moment. Was that it? Still unsure, 
Coriolanus played along. “That’s right.” 

Spruce considered it, then shrugged and lowered the gun, 
releasing Lucy Gray from its hold. “I guess you’ll be company for Lil.” 

Coriolanus’s eyes fell to the cache of weapons. Two more 
shotguns, a standard Peacekeeper rifle like the ones they used in 
target practice. Some sort of heavy piece that appeared to launch 
grenades. Several knives. “That’s quite a haul.” 


“Not for five people,” Spruce replied. “It’s the ammo I’m 


concerned about. Be helpful if you could get us some more of that 
from the base.” 

Sejanus nodded. “Maybe. We don’t really have access to the 
armory. But I can look around.” 

“Sure. Stock up.” 

Everyone’s head snapped toward the sound. A female voice, 
coming from the far corner of the shed. Coriolanus had forgotten 
about the second door, since no one ever seemed to use it. In the 
pitch-blackness outside the lamp’s circle of light, he could not say if it 
was open or shut, or make out the intruder. How long had she been 
hiding there in the gloom? 

“Who’s there?” said Spruce. 

“Guns, ammo,” mocked the voice. “You can’t make more of that, 
can you? Up north?” 

The nastiness helped Coriolanus place it from the night of the 
brawl in the Hob. “It’s Mayfair Lipp, the mayor’s daughter.” 

“Trailing after Billy Taupe like a hound in heat,” said Lucy Gray 
under her breath. 

“Always keep that last bullet somewhere safe. So as you can blow 
your brains out before they catch you,” said Mayfair. 

“Get home,” ordered Billy Taupe. “Pll explain this later. It’s not 
how it sounded.” 

“No, no. Come in and join us, Mayfair,” invited Spruce. “We’ve got 
no quarrel with you. You can’t choose your pa.” 


“We won't hurt you,” said Sejanus. 


Mayfair gave an ugly laugh. “Course you won't.” 

“What’s going on?” Spruce asked Billy Taupe. 

“Nothing. She’s just talking,” he said. “She won’t do anything.” 

“That’s me. All talk, no action. Right, Lucy Gray? How’d you enjoy 
the Capitol, by the way?” The door gave a small creak, and Coriolanus 
had the sense Mayfair was backing away, about to flee. With her 
would go his entire future. No, more than that, his very life. If she 
reported what she’d heard, the whole lot of them would be as good as 
dead. 

In a flash, Spruce lifted his shotgun to shoot her, but Billy Taupe 
knocked the barrel toward the floor. Coriolanus reflexively reached 
for the Peacekeeper rifle and fired toward Mayfair’s voice. She gave a 
cry, and there was the sound of her collapsing to the floor. 

“Mayfair!” Billy Taupe bolted across the shed to where she lay in 
the doorway. He staggered back into the light, his hand shiny with 
blood, spitting at Coriolanus like a rabid animal. “What’d you do?” 

Lucy Gray began to shake, the way she had in the zoo when 
Arachne Crane’s throat had been slit. 

Coriolanus gave her a push, and her feet started moving toward 
the door. “Go back. Get onstage. That’s your alibi. Go!” 

“Oh, no. If I swing, she’s swinging with me!” Billy Taupe charged 
after her. 

Without hesitating, Spruce shot Billy Taupe through the chest. The 
blast carried him backward, and he crumpled to the floor. 


In the stillness that followed, Coriolanus registered the music 


coming from the Hob for the first time since Lucy Gray had finished 
her number. Maude Ivory had the entire warehouse caught up in a 


sing-along. 
Keep on the sunny side, always the sunny side, 


“You better do like he said,” Spruce told Lucy Gray. “Before they 


miss you and someone comes looking.” 
Keep on the sunny side of life. 


Lucy Gray couldn’t take her eyes off Billy Taupe’s body. 
Coriolanus grabbed her by the shoulders, forcing her to look at him. 


“Go. Pll take care of this.” He propelled her to the door. 
It will help us every day, it will brighten all the way, 
She opened it, and they both looked out. The coast was clear. 


If we keep on the sunny side of life. 


Yessir, keep on the sunny side of life. 


The whole Hob broke into drunken cheers, signifying the end of 
Maude Ivory’s song. They were just in time. “You were never here,” 
Coriolanus whispered in Lucy Gray’s ear as he let her go. She 
stumbled across the pavement and into the Hob. He slid the door shut 
with his foot. 


Sejanus checked Billy Taupe’s pulse. 


Spruce stuffed the weapons back into the burlap bag. “Don’t 
bother. They’re dead. I’m planning to keep this to myself. What about 
you two?” 


? 


“The same. Obviously,” said Coriolanus. Sejanus stared at them, 
still in shock. “Him, too. I’ll make sure.” 

“You might think about coming with us. Someone’s going to pay 
for this,” said Spruce. He retrieved the lamp and vanished out the 
back door, throwing the shed into darkness. 

Coriolanus fumbled forward until he found Sejanus and pulled him 
out after Spruce. He forced Mayfair’s body into the shed with his boot 
and firmly closed the door on the murder scene with his shoulder. 
There. He’d successfully made it in and out of the shed without 
touching anything with his skin. Except the gun he’d killed Mayfair 
with, of course, no doubt covered in his fingerprints and DNA — but 
Spruce would take that when he left District 12, never to return. The 
last thing he needed was a repeat of the handkerchief scenario. He 
could still hear Dean Highbottom taunting him. ... 

“Do you hear that, Coriolanus? It’s the sound of Snow falling.” 

For a moment he inhaled the night air. Music, some sort of 
instrumental piece, floated over to them. He guessed Lucy Gray had 
made it onto the stage but had not yet reclaimed her voice. Grabbing 
Sejanus by the elbow, he steered him around the shed and checked 
the passage between the buildings. Empty. He hurried them down the 
side of the Hob, pausing before they turned the corner. “Not a word,” 


he hissed. 


Sejanus, pupils wide, sweat staining his collar, repeated, “Not a 
word.” 

Inside the Hob, they took their seats. Next to them, Beanpole sat 
propped against the wall, apparently blacked out. On the other side of 
him, Smiley chatted up a girl while Bug killed the whiskey. No one 
seemed to have missed them. 

The instrumental ended and Lucy Gray had pulled herself together 
enough to sing again, choosing a number that required all the Covey 
to back her up. Smart girl. They would likely be the ones to discover 
the bodies, since the shed was their break room. The longer she kept 
them all together up there, the better their alibi would be, the more 
time Spruce would have to get those murder weapons out of the area, 
and the harder it would be for the audience to place anything in time. 

Coriolanus’s heart pounded in his chest as he tried to assess the 
damage. He thought no one would much care about Billy Taupe, 
except Clerk Carmine maybe. But Mayfair? The only child of the 
mayor? Spruce was right; someone was going to pay for her. 

Lucy Gray opened the floor to requests and managed to keep all 
five of the Covey onstage for the rest of the program. Maude Ivory 
collected money from the audience as usual. Lucy Gray thanked 
everybody, the Covey took a final bow, and the audience began to 
shuffle toward the door. 

“We need to head straight back,” Coriolanus said quietly to 
Sejanus. They each threw one of Beanpole’s arms over their shoulders 


and headed out with Bug and Smiley trailing behind. They’d traveled 


about twenty yards down the road when Maude Ivory’s hysterical 
screams cut through the night air, causing everyone to turn back. 
Since it would have been suspicious to keep going, Coriolanus and 
Sejanus swung Beanpole around as well. Then, very quickly, 
Peacekeeper whistles blew, and a couple of officers were waving them 
back to the base. They lost themselves in the herd and did not speak 
to each other again until they’d reached the barrack, heard their 
bunkmates snoring, and snuck into the bathroom. 

“We know nothing. That’s the whole story,” Coriolanus whispered. 
“We left the Hob briefly to piss. The rest of the night, we were at the 
show.” 

“All right,” said Sejanus. “What about the others?” 

“Spruce is long gone and Lucy Gray won’t tell a soul, not even the 
Covey. She won’t want to put them in danger,” he said. “Tomorrow, 
we'll both be hungover and spend the day on the base.” 

“Yes. Yes. Day on the base.” Sejanus seemed distracted to the point 
of incoherence. 

Coriolanus grasped his face between his hands. “Sejanus, this is 
life or death. You have to hold it together.” Sejanus agreed, but 
Coriolanus knew he didn’t sleep a wink after that. He could hear him 
shifting around the whole night through. In his own mind, he 
replayed the shooting again and again. He’d killed for the second 
time. If Bobbin’s death had been self-defense, what was Mayfair’s? Not 
premeditated murder. Not murder at all, really. Just another form of 


self-defense. The law might not see it that way, but he did. Mayfair 


may not have had a knife, but she had the power to get him hanged. 
Not to mention what she’d do to Lucy Gray and the others. Perhaps 
because he hadn’t actually seen her die, or even had a good look at 
the body, he felt less emotional than when he’d killed Bobbin. Or 
perhaps the second killing was just easier than the first. At any rate, 
he knew that he’d shoot her again if he had it all to do over, and 
somehow that supported the rightness of his actions. 

The next morning, even the hungover bunkmates made it to the 
mess hall for breakfast. Smiley got the scoop from his nurse friend, 
who’d been on duty at the clinic the night before, when they’d 
brought in the bodies. “They’re both locals, but one of them is the 
mayor’s daughter. The other one’s a musician or something, but not 
one that we’ve seen. They were shot dead in that garage behind the 
Hob. Right during the show! Only none of us heard it because of the 
music.” 

“Did they find who did it?” asked Beanpole. 

“Not yet. These people aren’t even supposed to have guns, but like 
I told you, they’re floating around out there,” Smiley said. “Killed by 
one of their own, though.” 

“How do they know that?” asked Sejanus. 

Shut up! thought Coriolanus. Knowing Sejanus, he could be one 
step away from confessing to a crime he didn’t even commit. 

“Well, she said they think the girl was shot with a Peacekeeper’s 
rifle, probably an old one that got stolen during the war. And the 


musician was killed by some sort of shotgun the locals used for 


hunting. Probably two shooters,” Smiley reported. “They searched the 
surrounding area and couldn’t find the weapons. Long gone with the 
murderers, if you ask me.” 

Coriolanus’s nerves unwound a bit, and he ate a forkful of 
pancakes. “Who found the bodies?” 

“That little girl singer — you know, the one in the pink dress,” 
said Smiley. 

“Maude Ivory,” said Sejanus. 

“T think that’s it. Anyway, she freaked out. They questioned the 
band, but when would they have had time to do it? They barely leave 
the stage, and anyway no guns were found,” Smiley told them. “Shook 
them up pretty good, though. I guess they knew the musician guy 
somehow or other.” 

Coriolanus stabbed a link of sausage with his fork, feeling much 
improved. The investigation was off to a good start. Even so, it could 
still be bad for Lucy Gray, having the double motive of Billy Taupe 
being her old flame and Mayfair having sent her into the arena. And 
once the arena was brought into it, could he be implicated? No one 
from 12 knew he was her new love except the Covey, and Lucy Gray 
would keep them quiet. Anyway, if she had a new love, why would 
either of them care about Billy Taupe? They might want to kill 
Mayfair, though, as a form of revenge, and Billy Taupe might try to 
defend her. Actually, that was not far from what had happened. But 
hundreds of witnesses could swear that Lucy Gray had been onstage 


for all but a brief period of the show. No guns had been found. It 


would be tough to prove her guilty. He would have to have patience, 
give things time to simmer down, but then they could be together 
again. In many ways, he felt closer to her than ever now that they had 
this new and unbreakable bond. 

In view of the past night’s events, the commander locked down the 
base for the day. Not that Coriolanus had plans anyway — he would 
have to steer clear of the Covey for a while. He and Sejanus floated 
around, trying to look normal. Playing cards, writing letters, cleaning 
their boots. As they knocked the mud from the treads, Coriolanus 
whispered, “What about the escape plan? Is it still on?” 

“T’ve no idea,” Sejanus said. “The commander’s birthday isn’t until 
next weekend. That was the night we were supposed to go. Coryo, 
what if they arrest an innocent person for the murders?” 

Then our troubles are over, thought Coriolanus, but he only said, “I 
think it’s highly unlikely, with no guns. But let’s cross that bridge 
when we come to it.” 

Coriolanus slept better that night. Monday the lockdown ended, 
and the rumor mill claimed that the murders had to do with rebel 
infighting. If they wanted to kill each other, let them. The mayor 
came on base and pitched a fit to the commander about his daughter, 
but since he’d spoiled Mayfair rotten and let her run loose like a 
wildcat, the feeling was he had no one to blame but himself if she had 
been keeping time with a rebel. 

By Tuesday afternoon, the interest in the murders had died down 


to the extent that Coriolanus began to make plans for the future as he 


peeled potatoes for the next day’s breakfast. The first thing was to 
ensure that Sejanus had given up on the escape plan. Hopefully, the 
events at the shed had convinced him he was playing with fire. 
Tomorrow night they would have mopping detail together, so that 
would be the best time to confront him. If he didn’t agree to abandon 
the breakout, Coriolanus would have no choice but to report him to 
the commander. Feeling resolved, he peeled with such zeal that he 
finished early, and Cookie let him off for the last half hour of his shift. 
He checked the mail and found a box from Pluribus, loaded with 
packets of strings for assorted musical instruments and a kind note 
saying there was no charge. He put them in his locker, happy at the 
thought of how happy the Covey would be when it was safe enough to 
see them again. Maybe in a week or two, if things continued to settle 
down. 

Coriolanus began to feel like his old self as he headed to the mess 
hall. Tuesday meant hash. He had a few extra minutes and went to 
pick up another can of powder for his rash, which had finally begun 
to heal. But as he came out of the clinic, a base ambulance pulled up, 
the back doors swung open, and two medics pulled a man on a 
stretcher from the back. His blood-soaked shirt suggested he might be 
dead, but as they carried him inside, he turned his head. A pair of 
gray eyes landed on Coriolanus, who could not suppress a gasp. 
Spruce. Then the doors swung shut, blocking him from view. 

Coriolanus got word to Sejanus after hours, but neither knew what 


it meant. Spruce had clearly mixed it up with the Peacekeepers, but 


why? Had they connected him with the murders? Did they know 
about the escape plan? Had they found out about the gun purchase? 
What would he tell them now that they’d captured him? 

Wednesday breakfast, Smiley’s reliable nurse let him know that 
Spruce had died from his wounds during the night. She didn’t really 
know, but most people thought he’d been involved with the murders. 
Coriolanus went through the morning on autopilot, waiting for the 
other shoe to drop. At lunch, it did. A pair of military police officers 
came to their table in the mess and arrested Sejanus, who went 
without a word. Coriolanus tried to mirror his bunkmates’ shocked 
faces. Obviously, he parroted, there had been a mistake. 

Led by Smiley, they confronted the sergeant at target practice. 
“Wed just like to say that there’s no way Sejanus committed those 
murders. He was with us all night.” 

“We never were apart,” ventured Beanpole. As if he could have 
possibly known, blacked out as he’d been against the wall, but all of 
them backed him up. 

“I appreciate your loyalty,” said the sergeant, “but I think this is 
about something else.” 

A chill went through Coriolanus. Something else, like the escape 
plan? Spruce didn’t seem like he’d have spilled the news, especially 
because it could have affected his sister. No, Coriolanus felt certain his 
jabberjay had made it through to Dr. Gaul, and this was the fallout. 
First Spruce’s arrest, then Sejanus’s. 


For the next two days, everything seemed to tumble forward, as he 


tried to reassure himself that this was in Sejanus’s best interest, as the 
bunkmates’ pleas to see their friend were denied, as the detention 
stretched on. He kept waiting for Strabo Plinth to descend in a private 
hovercraft, negotiate a discharge, offer to upgrade the entire air fleet 
for free, and whisk his errant son back home. But did his father even 
know about Sejanus’s predicament? This wasn’t the Academy, where 
they called your parents if you messed up. 

As casually as possible, Coriolanus asked an older soldier if they 
were ever allowed to call home. Yes, everyone was allowed a biannual 
call, but only once they’d put in six months. All other correspondence 
had to be by mail. Not knowing how long Sejanus might be in lockup, 
Coriolanus scribbled a short note to Ma, generally informing her that 
Sejanus was in trouble and suggesting Strabo might want to make a 
few calls. He hurried over to mail it Friday morning but was waylaid 
by a base-wide announcement calling all but essential personnel to 
the auditorium. There, the commander informed them that one of 
their own was to be hanged for treason that afternoon. One Sejanus 
Plinth. 

It was so surreal, like a waking nightmare. In drill practice, his 
body felt like a marionette being jerked here and there by invisible 
strings. When it ended, the sergeant called him forward, and 
everyone — his fellow recruits, Smiley, Bug, and Beanpole — watched 
while Coriolanus was given the order to attend the hanging to fill out 
the ranks. 


Back at the barrack, his fingers were so stiff he could hardly 


manipulate the uniform buttons, each one carrying the impression of 
the Capitol seal on its silver face. His legs had the same lack of 
coordination he associated with bomb time, but somehow he wobbled 
to the armory to collect his rifle. The other Peacekeepers, none of 
whom he knew by name, gave him a wide berth in the truck bed. He 
was certain he was tainted by association with the condemned. 

As with Arlo’s hanging, Coriolanus was instructed to stand in a 
squad flanking the hanging tree. The size and volatility of the crowd 
confused him — surely, Sejanus had not garnered this sort of support 
in a few weeks — until the Peacekeeper van arrived and both Sejanus 
and Lil stumbled out in their chains. At the sight of the girl, many in 
the crowd began to wail her name. 

Arlo, an ex-soldier toughened by years in the mines, had managed 
a fairly restrained end, at least until he’d heard Lil in the crowd. But 
Sejanus and Lil, weak with terror, looked far younger than their years 
and only reinforced the impression that two innocent children were 
being dragged to the gallows. Lil, her shaking legs unable to bear her 
weight, was hauled forward by a pair of grim-faced Peacekeepers who 
would probably spend the following night trying to obliterate this 
memory with white liquor. 

As they passed him, Coriolanus locked eyes with Sejanus, and all 
he could see was the eight-year-old boy on the playground, the bag of 
gumdrops clenched in his fist. Only this boy was much, much more 
frightened. Sejanus’s lips formed his name, Coryo, and his face 


contorted in pain. But whether it was a plea for help or an accusation 


of his betrayal he couldn’t tell. 

The Peacekeepers positioned the condemned side by side on the 
trapdoors. Another tried to read out the list of charges over the 
shrieks of the crowd, but all Coriolanus could catch was the word 
treason. He averted his eyes as the Peacekeepers moved in with the 
nooses, and he found himself looking at Lucy Gray’s stricken face. She 
stood near the front in an old gray dress, her hair hidden in a black 
scarf, tears running down her cheeks as she stared up at Sejanus. 

As the drumroll began, Coriolanus squeezed his eyes shut, wishing 
he could block out the sound as well. But he could not, and he heard 
it all. Sejanus’s cry, the bang of the trapdoors, and the jabberjays 
picking up Sejanus’s last word, screaming it over and over into the 
dazzling sun. 


“Ma! Ma! Ma! Ma! Ma!” 


< 


Coriolanus soldiered his way through the aftermath, remaining 
stone-faced and speechless as he traveled back to the base, returned 
his gun, and walked to the barrack. He knew people were staring at 
him; Sejanus was known to be his friend, or at least a member of his 
squad. They wanted to see him crack, but he refused to give them the 
satisfaction. Alone in his room, he slowly removed his uniform, 
hanging each piece with precision, smoothing the creases with his 
fingers. Away from prying eyes, he allowed his body to deflate, his 
shoulders to droop in fatigue. All he’d managed to get down today 
had been a few swallows of apple juice. He felt too debilitated to 
rejoin his squad for target practice, to face Bug and Beanpole and 
Smiley. His hands shook too badly to hold a rifle anyway. Instead he 
sat on Beanpole’s bunk in his underwear in the stifling room, waiting 
for whatever was to come. 

It was only a matter of time. Maybe he should just give himself up. 


Before they came to arrest him because Spruce had confessed to, or — 


more likely — Sejanus had divulged the details of the murders. Even 
if they had not, the Peacekeeper’s rifle was still out there, covered in 
his DNA. Spruce had not fled to freedom, probably lying low until he 
could rescue Lil, and if he had remained in District 12, so had the 
murder weapons. They could be testing his gun right at this minute, 
looking for confirmation that Spruce had used it to kill Mayfair and 
discovering that the shooter was their own Private Snow. The one 
who’d ratted out his best friend and sent him to the gallows. 

Coriolanus buried his face in his hands. He had killed Sejanus as 
surely as if he’d bludgeoned him to death like Bobbin or gunned him 
down like Mayfair. He’d killed the person who considered him his 
brother. But even as the vileness of the act threatened to drown him, a 
tiny voice kept asking, What choice did you have? What choice? No 
choice. Sejanus had been bent on self-destruction, and Coriolanus had 
been swept along in his wake, only to be deposited at the foot of the 
hanging tree himself. 

He tried to think rationally about it. Without him, Sejanus would 
have died in the arena, prey to the pack of tributes who had tried to 
kill them as they fled. Technically, Coriolanus had given him a few 
more weeks of life and a second chance, an opportunity to mend his 
ways. But he hadn’t. Couldn’t. Didn’t care to. He was what he was. 
Maybe the wilderness would have been best for him. Poor Sejanus. 
Poor sensitive, foolish, dead Sejanus. 

Coriolanus crossed to Sejanus’s locker, removed his box of 


personal items, and sat on the floor, spreading the contents in front of 


him. The only additions since his first search were a couple of 
homemade cookies, covered in a bit of tissue. Coriolanus unwrapped 
one and took a bite. Why not? The sweetness spread across his 
tongue, and images flashed in his brain — Sejanus holding out a 
sandwich at the zoo, Sejanus standing up to Dr. Gaul, Sejanus 
embracing him on the road back to the base, Sejanus swinging from 
the rope — 

“Ma! Ma! Ma! Ma! Ma!” 

He gagged on the cookie, bringing up a splash of apple juice, sour 
and acidic, along with the crumbs. Sweat poured off his body and he 
began to cry. Leaning back against the lockers, he curled his legs into 
his chest and let the ugly, violent sobs shake him. He wept for 
Sejanus, and for poor old Ma, and for sweet, devoted Tigris and his 
feeble, delusional Grandma’a’m, who would soon be losing him in 
such a sordid way. And for himself, because any day now, he would 
be dead. He started gasping for air in terror, as if the rope already 
choked the life from his body. He did not want to die! Especially not 
in that field, with those mutant birds echoing his last utterance. Who 
knew what crazy thing you’d say in a moment like that? And him 
dead and the birds screaming it all out until the mockingjays turned it 
into some macabre song! 

After about five minutes, the outburst ended, and he calmed 
himself, rubbing his thumb over the cool marble heart from Sejanus’s 
box. There was nothing to do except try to face his death like a man. 


Like a soldier. Like a Snow. Having accepted his fate, he felt the need 


to get his affairs in order. He had to make what small amends he 
could to those he loved. Unfastening the back of the silver picture 
frame, he found quite a bit of cash still remained after Sejanus’s gun 
purchase. He took one of the creamy, fancy envelopes Sejanus had 
brought from the Capitol, stuffed the money in, sealed it, and 
addressed it to Tigris. After tidying Sejanus’s keepsakes, he returned 
the box to his locker. What else? He found himself thinking of Lucy 
Gray, the one and now only love of his life. He would like to leave her 
a remembrance of him. He dug through his own box and decided on 
the orange scarf, since the Covey loved color, and her more than 
most. He was unsure of how he’d get it to her, but if he made it to 
Sunday, maybe he could sneak off the base and see her one last time. 
He placed the neatly folded scarf with the strings Pluribus had sent. 
After rinsing the snot and tears from his face, he dressed and walked 
over to the post office to mail the money home. 

At dinner, he whispered an account of the hanging to his 
miserable bunkmates, trying to soften it. “I think he died immediately. 
He couldn’t have felt any pain.” 

“T still can’t believe he did it,” said Smiley. 

Beanpole’s voice quavered. “I hope they don’t think we were all 
involved.” 

“Bug and I are the only ones who’d be suspected of being rebel 
sympathizers, being from the districts,” said Smiley. “What are you 
worried about? You guys are Capitol.” 


“So was Sejanus,” Beanpole reminded him. 


“But not really, right? The way he always talked about District 
Two?” said Bug. 

“No, not really,” agreed Coriolanus. 

Coriolanus spent the evening on guard duty at the empty prison. 
He slept like the dead, which made sense since it was only a matter of 
hours before he joined them. 

He went through the motions during morning drills and almost felt 
relief when, at the end of lunch, Commander Hoff’s aide appeared and 
requested that he follow him. Not as dramatic as the military police, 
but as they were trying to reinstate a sense of normalcy among the 
troops, it was the right way to proceed. Sure that he would be taken 
straight from the commander’s office to the prison, Coriolanus 
regretted not placing some bit of home in his pocket to hang on to in 
his last hours. His mother’s powder would’ve been the thing, 
something to soothe him while he waited for the rope. 

While not grand, the commander’s office proved nicer than any 
other space he’d seen on base, and he sank into the leather seat across 
the desk from Hoff, grateful that he could receive his death sentence 
with a little class. Remember, you’re a Snow, he told himself. Let’s go 
out with some dignity. 

The commander excused his aide, who left the office and closed 
the door behind him. Hoff leaned back in his chair and considered 
Coriolanus for a long moment. “Quite a week for you.” 


2) 


“Yes, sir.” He wished the man would just get on with the 


interrogation. He was too tired to play some cat-and-mouse game. 


“Quite a week,” repeated Hoff. “I understand you were a stellar 
student back in the Capitol.” 

Coriolanus had no idea who he’d heard that from, and wondered if 
it could have been Sejanus. Not that it mattered. “That’s a generous 
assessment.” 

The commander smiled. “And modest, too.” 

Oh, just arrest me, thought Coriolanus. He didn’t need some long 
windup to what a disappointment he’d turned out to be. 

“Tm told you were close friends with Sejanus Plinth,” said Hoff. 

Ah, here we go, thought Coriolanus. Why not speed the thing along 
instead of dragging it out with denials? “We were more than friends. 
We were like brothers.” 

Hoff gave him a sympathetic look. “Then all I can do is express the 
Capitol’s sincerest gratitude for your sacrifice.” 

Wait. What? Coriolanus stared at him in confusion. “Sir?” 

“Dr. Gaul received your message from the jabberjay,” Hoff 
reported. “She said sending it couldn’t have been an easy choice for 
you to make. Your loyalty to the Capitol came at a great personal 
cost.” 

So, a reprieve. Apparently, the gun with his DNA had not yet 
surfaced. They viewed him as a conflicted Capitol hero. He adopted a 
suffering look, as befitted a man who grieved for his wayward friend. 
“Sejanus wasn’t bad, just . . . confused.” 

“T agree. But conspiring with the enemy crosses a line we can’t 


afford to ignore, I’m afraid.” Hoff paused in thought. “Do you think he 


could’ve been mixed up in the murders?” 

Coriolanus’s eyes widened, as if the idea had never crossed his 
mind. “The murders? You mean at the Hob?” 

“The mayor’s daughter and...” The commander flipped through 
some papers, then he decided not to bother. “That other fellow.” 

“Oh... I don’t think so. Do you think they’re connected?” asked 
Coriolanus, as if mystified. 

“T don’t know. Don’t care much,” Hoff told him. “The young man 
was running with the rebels, and she was running with him. Whoever 
killed them probably saved me a lot of trouble up the road.” 

“It doesn’t sound like Sejanus,” said Coriolanus. “He never wanted 
to hurt anyone. He wanted to be a medic.” 

“Yes, that’s what your sergeant said,” Hoff agreed. “So he didn’t 
mention getting them guns?” 

“Guns? Not that I know of. How would he get guns?” Coriolanus 
was beginning to enjoy himself a bit. 

“Buy them on the black market? He’s from a rich family, I hear,” 
said Hoff. “Well, never mind. It’s likely to remain a mystery unless the 
weapons turn up. I’ve got Peacekeepers searching the Seam over the 
next few days. In the meantime, Dr. Gaul and I have decided to keep 
your help with Sejanus quiet for your safety. Don’t want the rebels 
targeting you, do we?” 

“That’s what I would prefer anyway,” said Coriolanus. “It’s hard 
enough dealing with my decision privately.” 


“T understand. But when the dust settles, remember you did a real 


service for your country. Try to put it behind you.” Then, as if as an 
afterthought, he added, “It’s my birthday today.” 

“Yes, I helped unload some whiskey for the party,” said 
Coriolanus. 

“Usually a good time. Try and enjoy yourself.” Hoff stood up and 
extended his hand. 

Coriolanus rose and shook it. “PI do my best. And happy birthday, 
sir.” 

The bunkmates greeted him with delight when he returned, 
ambushing him with questions about the commander’s calling him in. 

“He knew Sejanus and I had a history together, and he just wanted 
to make sure I was all right,” Coriolanus told them. 

The news improved everyone’s spirits, and the update to their 
afternoon schedule gave Coriolanus some satisfaction. Instead of 
shooting at targets, they were cleared to take out the jabberjays and 
mockingjays at the hanging tree. Their chorus following Sejanus’s 
final outcry had been the last straw. 

Coriolanus felt giddy as he blasted the mockingjays off the 
branches, managing to kill three. Not so clever now, are you! he 
thought. Unfortunately, most of the birds flew out of range after a 
short while. But they’d be back. He’d be back, too, if he didn’t hang 
first. 

In honor of the commander’s birthday, they all showered, then 
dressed in fresh fatigues before heading over to the mess hall. Cookie 


had laid out a surprisingly elegant meal, serving up steak, mashed 


potatoes and gravy, and fresh, not canned, peas. Each soldier got a big 
mug of beer, and Hoff was on hand to cut an enormous frosted cake. 
After dinner, they all assembled at the gymnasium, which had been 
decorated with banners and flags for the occasion. Whiskey flowed 
freely, and many impromptu toasts were made over the mic brought 
out for this purpose. But Coriolanus didn’t realize there would be 
entertainment until some of the soldiers started setting up chairs. 

“Sure,” an officer told him. “We hired that band from the Hob. 
The commander gets a kick out of them.” 

Lucy Gray. This would be his chance, probably his only chance, to 
see her again. He ran to the barrack, retrieved the box from Pluribus 
with the instrument strings and his scarf, and hurried back to the 
party. He could see that his bunkmates had saved a chair for him 
about halfway up, but he stood at the back of the audience. If an 
opportunity came, he didn’t want to make a scene getting out. The 
lights flickered off in the main part of the gym, leaving only the area 
by the mic illuminated, and the crowd grew quiet. All eyes were on 
the locker room, which had been hung with the blanket the Covey 
used in the Hob. 

Maude Ivory scampered out in a buttercup yellow dress with a 
wide skirt and hopped up on a crate someone had set in front of the 
mic. “Hey there, everybody! Tonight is a special night, and you know 
why! It’s somebody’s birthday!” 

The Peacekeepers broke into raucous applause. Maude Ivory began 


to sing the old, standby birthday song, and everyone joined in: 


Happy birthday 

To someone special! 

And we wish you many more! 
Once a year 

We give a cheer 

To you, Commander Hoff! 


Happy birthday! 


It was the only verse, but they sang it three times while the Covey, 
one by one, took their places onstage. 

Coriolanus drew in a sharp breath when Lucy Gray appeared in 
the rainbow dress from the arena. Most people would think it was for 
the commander’s birthday, but he felt certain that it was for him. A 
way to communicate, to bridge the chasm that circumstance had dug 
between them. An overwhelming flush of love ran through him at her 
reminder that he was not alone in this tragedy. They were back in the 
arena, fighting for survival, just the two of them against the world. He 
felt a bittersweet pang at the thought of her watching him die, but 
gratitude that she would survive. He was the only one left who could 
place her at the murders. She hadn’t touched the weapons. Whatever 
happened to him, there was comfort in knowing she would live on for 
the both of them. 

For the first half hour, he didn’t take his eyes off her as the Covey 
ran through some of their regular numbers. Then the rest of the band 
cleared out, leaving her alone in the light. She settled in on a high 


stool and then — had he imagined it? — patted the pocket of her 


dress as she had in the arena. It was her signal that she was thinking 
of him. That even if they were separated by space, they were together 
in time. Every nerve tingling, he listened intently as she began an 


unfamiliar song: 


Everyone’s born as clean as a whistle — 

As fresh as a daisy 

And not a bit crazy. 

Staying that way’s a hard row for hoeing — 
As rough as a briar, 


Like walking through fire. 


This world, it’s dark, 
And this world, it’s scary. 
I’ve taken some hits, so 
No wonder I’m wary. 

It’s why I 

Need you — 


You’re pure as the driven snow. 


Oh, no. He had not imagined anything. The mention of snow 


confirmed it. She’d written this song for him. 


Everyone wants to be like a hero — 
The cake with the cream, or 
The doer not dreamer. 


Doing’s hard work, It takes some to change things — 


Like goat’s milk to butter, 


Like ice blocks to water. 


This world goes blind 
When children are dying. 
I turn into dust, but 

You never stop trying. 
It’s why I 

Love you — 


You’re pure as the driven snow. 


His eyes filled with tears. They would hang him, but she would be 
there, knowing he was still a genuinely good person. Not a monster 
who’d cheated or betrayed his friend, but someone who’d really tried 
to be noble in impossible circumstances. Someone who had risked 
everything to save her in the Games. Someone who'd risked it all 


again to save her from Mayfair. The hero of her life. 


Cold and clean, 
Swirling over my skin, 
You cloak me. 

You soak right in, 


Down to my heart. 


To her heart. 


Everyone thinks they know all about me. 


They slap me with labels. 

They spit out their fables. 

You came along, you knew it was lying. 
You saw the ideal me, 


And yes, that’s the real me. 


This world, it’s cruel, 

With troubles aplenty. 
You asked for a reason — 
I’ve got three and twenty 
For why I 

Trust you — 


You’re pure as the driven snow. 


Had there been any doubt, this confirmed it. Three and twenty. 
Twenty-three. The number of tributes she’d survived in the Games. All 


because of him. 


That’s why I 
Trust you — 


You’re pure as the driven snow. 


The mention of trust. Before need, before love, came trust. The 
thing she valued most. And he, Coriolanus Snow, was the one she 
trusted. 

As the audience applauded, he stood still, clutching his box, too 


moved even to join in. The rest of the Covey ran onstage while Lucy 


Gray disappeared behind the blanket. Maude Ivory got her crate back 


in place and a twangy tune began. 


Well, there’s a dark and a troubled side of life. 


There’s a bright and a sunny side, too. 


Coriolanus recognized the tune. The song about the sunny side. 
The one she’d been singing during the murders. This was his chance. 
He maneuvered his way out the nearby door as inconspicuously as 
possible. With everyone safely inside, he sprinted around the 
gymnasium to the locker room and tapped on the outside door. It flew 
open immediately, as if she’d been waiting for him, and Lucy Gray 
flung herself into his arms. 

For a while, they just stood there, clinging to each other, but time 
was precious. 

“Pm so sorry about Sejanus. Are you okay?” she asked 
breathlessly. 

Of course, she knew nothing about his role in that. “Not really. But 
I’m still here, for the moment.” 

She drew back to look at his face. “What happened? How did they 
find out about him helping to get Lil out?” 

“I don’t know. Someone betrayed him, I guess,” he said. 

Lucy Gray didn’t hesitate. “Spruce.” 

“Probably.” Coriolanus touched her cheek. “What about you? Are 
you all right?” 


“Pm awful. It’s been just awful. Watching him die like that. And 


then, everything after that night. I know you killed Mayfair to protect 
me. Me and the rest of the Covey.” She rested her forehead on his 
chest. “TIl never be able to thank you for that.” 

He stroked her hair. “Well, she’s gone for good now. You're safe.” 

“Not really. Not really.” Distraught, Lucy Gray twisted away and 
began to pace. “The mayor, he’s... He won’t leave me alone. He’s 
sure I killed her. Killed them both. He drives that awful car down to 
our house and sits in front of it for hours. The Peacekeepers, they’ve 
questioned us all three times now. Anyway, they say he’s on them 
night and day to arrest me. And if they don’t make me pay, he will.” 

That was scary. “What did they say to do?” 

“Avoid him. But how can I, when he’s sitting ten feet from my 
house?” she cried. “Mayfair was all that mattered to him. I don’t think 
he’ll rest until I’m dead. Now he’s starting to threaten the rest of the 
Covey. I — I’m going to run away.” 

“What?” asked Coriolanus. “Where?” 

“North, I guess. Like Billy Taupe and the others talked about. If I 
stay here, I know he’ll find a way to kill me. I’ve been setting some 
supplies by. Out there, I might survive.” Lucy Gray rushed back into 
his arms. “I’m glad I got to tell you good-bye.” 

Run away. She was really going to do it. Head into the wilderness 
and take her chances. He knew only the prospect of certain death 
could drive her to do such a thing. For the first time in days, he saw a 
way to escape the noose. “Not good-bye. I’m going with you.” 


“You can’t. I won’t let you. You’d be risking your life,” she warned 


him. 

Coriolanus laughed. “My life? My life consists of wondering how 
long it will be until they find those guns and connect me to Mayfair’s 
murder. They’re searching the Seam now. It could be any moment. 
We'll go together.” 

Her brow creased with disbelief. “Do you mean it?” 

“We go tomorrow,” he said. “One step ahead of the executioner.” 

“And the mayor,” she added. “We’ll finally be free of him, of 
District Twelve, of the Capitol, all of it. Tomorrow. At dawn.” 

“Tomorrow at dawn,” he confirmed. He thrust the box into her 
hands. “From Pluribus. Except the scarf — that’s from me. I better run 
before someone realizes I’m gone and gets suspicious.” He pulled her 
in for a passionate kiss. “It’s just us again.” 

“Just us,” she said, her face shining with joy. 


Coriolanus flew out of the locker room with wings on his heels. 


Let us greet with a song of hope each day, 


Though the moments be cloudy or fair. 


He was not just going to live; he was going to live with her, as 
they had that day at the lake. He thought of the taste of the fresh fish, 
the sweet air, and the freedom to act however he wanted, as nature 
had intended. To answer to no one. To truly be rid of the world’s 


oppressive expectations forever. 


Let us trust in tomorrow always 


To keep us, one and all, in its care. 


He made it back to the gymnasium and slipped into his place in 


time to join in the last chorus. 


Keep on the sunny side, always the sunny side, 
Keep on the sunny side of life. 

It will help us every day, it will brighten all the way 
If we keep on the sunny side of life. 


Yessir, keep on the sunny side of life. 


Coriolanus’s mind was in a whirl. Lucy Gray rejoined the Covey 
for one of those harmonious things with unintelligible words, and he 
tuned them out as he tried to ride the curve life had just thrown him. 
He and Lucy Gray, running away into the wilderness. Madness. But 
then again, why not? It was the only lifeline in his reach, and he 
meant to grasp it and hold on tightly. Tomorrow was Sunday, so he 
had the day off. He’d leave as early as possible. Grab breakfast, 
possibly his last meal in civilization, when the mess opened at six, 
then hit the road. His bunkmates would be sleeping off the whiskey. 
He would have to sneak off the base. ... The fence! He hoped Spruce 
had had good information about the weak spot behind the generator. 
And then he’d make his way to Lucy Gray and run as fast and as far as 
he could. 

But wait. Should he go to her house? With the Covey all there? 


And possibly the mayor? Or did she mean to meet in the Meadow? He 


was mulling it over when the number ended and she slid back up on 
her stool with her guitar. 

“T almost forgot. I promised to sing this for one of you,” she said. 
And there it was again, ever so casually, her hand on her pocket. She 
began the song she’d been working on when he’d come up behind her 


in the Meadow. 


Are you, are you 

Coming to the tree 

Where they strung up a man they say murdered three? 
Strange things did happen here 

No stranger would it be 


If we met up at midnight in the hanging tree. 


The hanging tree. Her old meeting spot with Billy Taupe. That’s 


where she wanted him to meet her. 


Are you, are you 

Coming to the tree 

Where the dead man called out for his love to flee? 
Strange things did happen here 

No stranger would it be 


If we met up at midnight in the hanging tree. 


He would have preferred not to meet up at her old lover’s rendez- 
vous spot, but it was certainly much safer than meeting at her house. 


Who would be there on a Sunday morning? Anyway, Billy Taupe was 


no longer a concern. She took another breath. She must have written 


more.... 


Are you, are you 

Coming to the tree 

Where I told you to run, so we’d both be free? 
Strange things did happen here 


No stranger would it be 


Who did she mean? Billy Taupe telling her to come there so they’d 


be free? Her telling him tonight that they’d be free? 


Are you, are you 

Coming to the tree? 

Wear a necklace of rope, side by side with me. 
Strange things did happen here 

No stranger would it be 


If we met up at midnight in the hanging tree. 


Now he got it. The song, the speaker in the song, was Billy Taupe, 
and he was singing it to Lucy Gray. He’d witnessed Arlo’s death, heard 
the birds call out his last words, begged Lucy Gray to run away to 
freedom with him, and when she’d rejected him, he’d wanted her to 
hang with him rather than get to live without him. Coriolanus hoped 
this was the final Billy Taupe song. What else could be said, really? 
Not that it mattered. This might be his song, but she was singing it to 


Coriolanus. Snow lands on top. 


The Covey performed a few more numbers, then Lucy Gray said, 
“Well, as my daddy used to say, you have to go to bed with the birds 
if you want to greet them at dawn. Thanks for having us tonight. And 
how about one more round of wishes for Commander Hoff!” The 
whole drunken gymnasium slurred out one more “Happy Birthday” 
chorus for the commander. 

The Covey took their final bow and exited the stage. Coriolanus 
waited in the back to help Bug get Beanpole back to the barrack. 
Before they knew it, it was lights-out and they had to climb into bed 
in the dark. His bunkmates lost consciousness almost immediately, but 
he lay awake, going over the escape plan in his head. It didn’t require 
much. Just him, the clothes on his back, a couple of mementos in his 
pockets, and a lot of luck. 

Coriolanus rose at dawn, dressed in fresh fatigues, and tucked a 
couple of clean changes of underclothes and socks into his pockets. He 
chose three photos of his family, the circle of his mother’s powder, 
and his father’s compass, and hid them among his clothes as well. 
Last, he made the most convincing form of himself he could with his 
pillow and blanket and arranged the sheet over it. As his bunkmates 
snored on, he gave the room one final look and wondered if he would 
miss them. 

He joined a handful of early risers for a breakfast of bread 
pudding, which seemed a positive omen for the trip, as it was Lucy 
Gray’s favorite. He wished he could take her some, but his pockets 


were full to bursting, and they didn’t have napkins in the mess. 


Draining his cup of apple juice, he wiped his mouth on the back of his 
hand, dropped off his tray for the dish washers, and headed outside, 
planning to make a beeline for the generator. 

As he stepped into the sunlight, a pair of guards descended on 


? 


him. Armed guards, not aides. “Private Snow,” said one. “Youre 
wanted in the commander’s office.” 

A jolt of adrenaline shot through him. His blood pounded in his 
temples. This couldn’t be happening. They couldn’t be coming to 
arrest him just when he was on the verge of freedom. Of a new life 
with Lucy Gray. His eyes darted to the generator, about a hundred 
yards from the mess hall. Even with his recent training, he’d never 
make it. He never would. I just need five more minutes, he pleaded with 
the universe. Even two will do. The universe ignored him. 

Flanked by the guards, he drew back his shoulders and marched 
straight to the commander’s office, prepared to face his doom. As he 
entered, Commander Hoff rose from his desk, snapped to attention, 
and gave him a salute. “Private Snow,” he said. “Let me be the first to 


congratulate you. You leave for officers’ school tomorrow.” 


< 


Coriolanus stood stunned as the guards slapped him on the back, 
laughing. “I — I —” 

“You’re the youngest person ever to pass the test.” The 
commander beamed. “Ordinarily, we’d train you here, but your scores 
recommend you for an elite program in District Two. We’ll be sorry to 
see you go.” 

Oh, how he wished he could go! To District Two, which was not 
really that far from his home in the Capitol. To officers’ school, elite 
officers’ school, where he could distinguish himself and find a way 
back to a life worth living. This might be an even better road to power 
than the University had offered. But there was still a murder weapon 
with his name on it out there. His DNA would condemn him, just as it 
had on the handkerchief. Sadly, tragically, it was too dangerous to 
stay. It hurt to play along. 

“What time do I leave?” he asked. 


“There’s a hovercraft headed that way early tomorrow morning, 


and you'll be on it. You’re off today, I think. Use the time to pack up 
and say your good-byes.” The commander shook his hand for the 
second time in two days. “We expect great things from you.” 

Coriolanus thanked the commander and headed outside, where he 
stood a moment, weighing his options. It was no use. There were no 
options. Hating himself, and hating Sejanus Plinth even more, he 
walked toward the building that housed the generator, almost not 
caring if he was apprehended. What a bitter disappointment, to have a 
second chance at a bright future so irrevocably stripped away. He had 
to remind himself of the rope, and the gallows, and the jabberjays 
mimicking his last words to renew his focus. He was about to desert 
the Peacekeepers; he needed to snap out of it. 

When he reached the building, he took a quick look over his 
shoulder, but the base still slept, and he slunk around to the back 
without witnesses. He examined the fence and could find no opening 
at first. He wound his fingers in the links and gave them a shake of 
frustration. Sure enough, the mesh pulled free of a supporting pole, 
leaving a break in the fence he could just squeeze through. Outside, 
his natural wariness reinstated itself. He skirted around the rear of the 
base and through a wooded area, eventually making his way to the 
road that led to the hanging tree. Once there, he simply followed the 
path the truck had taken on previous trips, walking briskly, but not so 
fast as to attract attention. There was precious little to attract anyway 
on a hot Sunday shortly after dawn. Most miners and Peacekeepers 


would not rise for hours. 


After a few miles, he reached the depressing field and broke into a 
run for the hanging tree, eager to conceal himself in the woods. There 
was no sign of Lucy Gray, and as he passed under the branches, he 
wondered if in fact he’d misinterpreted her message and should have 
headed to the Seam instead. Then he caught a glimpse of orange and 
tracked it to a clearing. There she stood, unloading a stack of bundles 
from a small wagon, his scarf wound in a fetching manner around her 
head. She ran over and hugged him, and he responded even though it 
felt too hot for an embrace. The kiss that followed put him in a better 
mood. 

His hand went to the orange scarf in her hair. “This seems very 
bright for fugitives.” 

Lucy Gray smiled. “Well, I don’t want you to lose me. You still up 
for this?” 

“T have no choice.” Realizing that sounded halfhearted, he added, 
“You're all that matters to me now.” 

“You, too. You’re my life now. Sitting here, waiting for you to 
show up, I realized I’d never really be brave enough to do this without 
you,” she admitted. “It’s not just how hard it will be. It’s too lonely. I 
might’ve made it for a few days, but then I’d have come home to the 
Covey.” 

“T know. I didn’t even consider running until you brought it up. It’s 
so... daunting.” He ran a hand over her bundles. “I’m sorry, I 
couldn’t risk bringing anything much.” 


“I didn’t think you could. I’ve been collecting all this, and I raided 


our storeroom, too. It’s okay. I left the Covey the rest of the money.” 
As if convincing herself, she said, “They’ll be okay.” She hoisted up a 
pack and threw it over her shoulder. 

He gathered some of the supplies. “What will they do? I mean, the 
band. Without you.” 

“Oh, they’ll get by. They can all carry a tune, and Maude Ivory’s 
just a few years from replacing me as lead singer anyway,” said Lucy 
Gray. “Besides, the way trouble seems to find me, I may be wearing 
out my welcome in District Twelve. Last night the commander told me 
not to sing ‘The Hanging Tree’ anymore. Too dark, he said. Too 
rebellious, more like it. I promised he’d never hear it from my lips 
again.” 

“It’s a strange song,” offered Coriolanus. 

Lucy Gray laughed. “Well, Maude Ivory likes it. She says it has 
real authority.” 

“Like my voice. When I sang the anthem in the Capitol,” 
Coriolanus remembered. 

“That’s it,” said Lucy Gray. “You ready?” 

They’d divided everything between them. It took him a moment to 
realize what was missing. “Your guitar. You’re not taking it?” 

“Tm leaving it for Maude Ivory. That and my mama’s dresses.” She 
struggled to make light of it. “What will I need them for? Tam Amber 
thinks there’s still people in the north, but I’m not convinced. I think 
it’s just going to be us.” 


For a moment, he realized that he wasn’t the only one leaving his 


dreams behind. “We’ll get new dreams out there,” Coriolanus 
promised, with more conviction than he felt. He pulled out his father’s 
compass, consulted it, and pointed. “North is this way.” 

“I thought we’d head to the lake first. It’s mostly north. Pd kind of 
like to see it one more time,” she said. 

It seemed as good a plan as any, so he didn’t object. Soon they’d 
just be adrift in the wilderness, never to return. Why not indulge her? 
He tucked in a bit of scarf that had come loose. “The lake it is.” 

Lucy Gray gazed back at the town, although the only thing 
Coriolanus could make out was the gallows. “Good-bye, District 
Twelve. Good-bye, hanging tree and Hunger Games and Mayor Lipp. 
Someday something will kill me, but it won’t be you.” She turned and 
headed deeper into the woods. 

“Not much to miss,” agreed Coriolanus. 

“Tl miss the music and my pretty birds,” said Lucy Gray with a 
catch in her voice. “I’m hoping one day they can follow me, though.” 

“You know what I won’t miss? People,” Coriolanus replied. 
“Except for a handful. They’re mostly awful, if you think about it.” 

“People aren’t so bad, really,” she said. “It’s what the world does 
to them. Like us, in the arena. We did things in there we’d never have 
considered if they’d just left us alone.” 

“T don’t know. I killed Mayfair, and there was no arena in sight,” 
he said. 

“But only to save me.” She thought it over. “I think there’s a 


natural goodness built into human beings. You know when you’ve 


stepped across the line into evil, and it’s your life’s challenge to try 
and stay on the right side of that line.” 

“Sometimes there are tough decisions.” He’d been making them all 
summer. 

“I know that. Of course, I do. I’m a victor,” she said ruefully. “Itd 
be nice, in my new life, not to have to kill anyone else.” 

“Pm with you there. Three seems enough for one lifetime. And 
certainly enough for one summer.” A feral cry came from nearby, 
reminding him of his lack of a weapon. “I’m going to make a walking 
stick. Do you want one?” 

She pulled up. “Sure. That could come in handy in more ways than 
one.” 

They found a couple of stout branches, and she steadied them 
while he snapped off their limbs. “Who’s the third?” 

“What?” She was giving him a funny look. His hand slipped, 
driving a piece of bark under his nail. “Ow.” 

She ignored his injury. “Person you killed. You said you killed 
three people this summer.” 

Coriolanus bit at the end of the splinter to pull it out with his 
teeth, buying a moment of time. Who, indeed? The answer was 
Sejanus, of course, but he couldn’t admit to that. 

“Can you get this out?” He held out his hand, wiggling the 
compromised fingernail, hoping to distract her. 

“Let me see.” She examined his splinter. “So, Bobbin, Mayfair... 


who’s the third?” 


His mind raced for a plausible explanation. Could he have been 
involved in a freak accident? A training death? He was cleaning a 
weapon, and it went off by mistake? He decided it was best to make a 
joke of it. “Myself. I killed the old me so I could come with you.” 

She plucked the splinter free. “There. Well, I hope old you doesn’t 
haunt new you. We’ve already got enough ghosts between us.” 

The moment passed, but it had killed the conversation. Neither of 
them spoke again until the halfway point, where they stopped for a 
breather. 

Lucy Gray unscrewed the plastic jug and offered it to him. “Will 
they miss you yet?” 

“Probably not until dinner. You?” He took a deep drink of water. 

“Only one up when I left was Tam Amber. I told him I was going 
to find out about a goat. We’ve been talking about building a herd. 
Sell the milk as a sideline,” she said. “I’ve probably got a few more 
hours before they start looking. Might be night before they think 
about the hanging tree and find the wagon. They’ll put it together.” 

He handed her the jug. “Will they try to follow you?” 

“Maybe. But we’ll be too far gone.” She took a swig and wiped her 
mouth with the back of her hand. “Will they hunt you?” 

He doubted the Peacekeepers would be concerned anytime soon. 
Why would he desert with elite officers’ school waiting? If anyone 
even noticed he was missing, they’d probably think he’d gone into 
town with another Peacekeeper. Unless they found the gun, of course. 


He didn’t want to go into all the school stuff now while the wound 


was still fresh. “I don’t know. Even when they realize I’ve run, they 
won’t know where to look.” 

They hiked on toward the lake, each lost in their own thoughts. It 
all seemed unreal to him, as if this were just a pleasure outing, as the 
one two Sundays ago had been. As if they were going for a picnic, and 
he must be sure to get back in time for fried baloney and curfew. But 
no. When they reached the lake, they’d move on into the wilderness, 
to a life consumed with the most basic type of survival. How would 
they eat? Where would they live? And what on earth would they do 
with themselves, when the challenges of obtaining food and shelter 
had been met? Her with no music. Him with no school, or military, or 
anything. Have a family? It seemed too bleak an existence to condemn 
a child to. Any child, let alone one of his own. What was there to 
aspire to once wealth, fame, and power had been eliminated? Was the 
goal of survival further survival and nothing more? 

Preoccupied as he was with these questions, the second leg of the 
journey to the lake passed quickly. They set down their loads on the 
shore, and Lucy Gray went directly to find branches for fishing poles. 
“We don’t know what lies ahead, so we better fill up here,” she said. 
She showed him how to attach the heavy thread and hooks to their 
poles. Clawing through the soft mud for worms disgusted him, and he 
wondered if this would be a daily activity. It would, if they were 
hungry enough. They baited the hooks and sat silently on the bank, 
waiting for a strike as the birds chattered around them. She caught 


two. He caught nothing. 


Heavy, dark clouds rolled in, providing some relief from the 
beating sun but adding to his oppression. This was his life now. 
Digging for worms and being at the mercy of the weather. Elemental. 
Like an animal. He knew this would be easier if he wasn’t such an 
exceptional person. The best and the brightest humanity had to offer. 
The youngest to pass the officer candidate test. If he’d been useless 
and stupid, the loss of civilization would not have hollowed out his 
insides in this manner. He’d have taken it in stride. Thick, cold 
raindrops began to plop down on him, leaving wet marks on his 
fatigues. 

“Never be able to cook in this,” Lucy Gray said. “Better go inside. 
There’s a fireplace in there we can use.” 

She could only mean the one lake house that still had a roof. 
Probably his last roof, until he built one himself. How did you build a 
roof anyway? It had not been a question on the officer candidate test. 

After she’d quickly cleaned the fish and wrapped them in leaves, 
they gathered up their bundles and hurried to the house as the rain 
pelted them. It might’ve been fun, if it hadn’t been his real life. Just 
an adventure for a few hours, with a charming girl and a fulfilling 
future elsewhere. The door was jammed, but Lucy Gray bumped it 
with her hip and it swung open. They scrambled in out of the wet and 
dropped their belongings. It was only one room, with concrete walls, 
ceiling, and floor. There was no sign of electricity, but light came 
through the windows on four sides and the single door. His eyes lit on 


the fireplace, full of old ashes, with a neat pile of dried wood stacked 


beside it. At least they wouldn’t have to forage for that. 

Lucy Gray crossed to the fireplace, laid the fish down on the little 
concrete hearth, and began to arrange layers of wood and twigs on an 
old metal grate. “We keep some wood in here so there’s always some 
dry.” 

Coriolanus considered the possibility of just staying in the sturdy 
little house, with plenty of wood around and the lake to fish in. But 
no, it would be too dangerous to put down roots this close to District 
12. If the Covey knew of this spot, surely other people did, too. He 
had to deny himself even this last shred of protection. Would he end 
up in a cave after all? He thought of the beautiful Snow penthouse, 
with its marble floors and crystal chandeliers. His home. His rightful 
home. The wind blew a splatter of rain in, peppering his pants with 
icy drops. He swung the door shut behind him and froze. The door 
had concealed something. A long burlap bag. From the opening poked 
the barrel of a shotgun. 

It couldn’t be. Unable to breathe, he nudged the bag open with his 
boot, revealing the shotgun and a Peacekeeper’s rifle. A little more 
and he could recognize the grenade launcher. Beyond question, these 
were the black market guns Sejanus had bought in the shed. And 
among them the murder weapons. 

Lucy Gray lit the fire. “I brought along an old metal can thinking 
maybe we could carry live coals from place to place. I don’t have 
many matches, and it’s hard to get a fire going from flint.” 


“Uh-huh,” said Coriolanus. “Good idea.” How had the weapons 


gotten here? It made sense, really. Billy Taupe could have brought 
Spruce to the lake, or maybe Spruce had simply known about it 
anyway. It would have been useful to the rebels during the war, to 
have as a hideout. And Spruce had been smart enough to know he 
couldn’t risk hiding the evidence in District 12. 

“Hey, what’d you find there?” Lucy Gray joined him and leaned 
down, pulling the burlap from the weapons. “Oh. Are these the ones 
they had in the shed?” 

“T think they must be,” he said. “Should we take the guns along?” 

Lucy Gray drew back, rose to her feet, and considered them for a 
long moment. “Rather not. I don’t trust them. This will come in 
handy, though.” She pulled out a long knife, turning the blade over in 
her hand. “I think Pll go dig up some katniss, since we got the fire 
going anyway. There’s a good patch by the lake.” 

“T thought they weren’t ready,” he said. 

“Two weeks can make a lot of difference,” she said. 

“It’s still raining,” he objected. “You'll get soaked.” 

She laughed. “Well, I’m not made of sugar.” 

In truth, he was happy for a minute alone to think. After she left, 
he lifted the bottom of the burlap bag, and the weapons slid out onto 
the floor. Kneeling beside the pile, he picked up the Peacekeeper’s 
rifle he’d killed Mayfair with and cradled it in his arms. Here it was. 
The murder weapon. Not in a Capitol forensic lab, but here, in his 
hands, in the middle of the wilderness, where it posed no threat at all. 


All he had to do was destroy it, and he would be free from the 


hangman’s noose. Free to go back to the base. Free to go forward to 
District 2. Free to rejoin the human race without fear. Tears of relief 
flooded his eyes, and he began to laugh out of sheer joy. How would 
he do it? Burn it in a bonfire? Disassemble it and scatter the parts to 
the four winds? Throw it into the lake? Once the gun was gone, 
there’d be nothing to connect him to the murders. Absolutely nothing. 

No, wait. There would be one thing. Lucy Gray. 

Well, no matter. She would never tell. She wouldn’t be thrilled, 
obviously, when he told her there’d been a change of plans. That he 
was returning to the Peacekeepers and heading to District 2 tomorrow 
at dawn, essentially leaving her to her fate. Still, she’d never rat him 
out. It wasn’t her style, and it would implicate her in the murders as 
well. It would mean she could wind up dead, and as the Hunger 
Games had shown, Lucy Gray possessed an extraordinary talent for 
self-preservation. Plus, she loved him. She’d said so last night in the 
song. Even more, she trusted him. Although, if he ditched her in the 
woods to claw out an existence alone, no doubt she would consider 
that a breach of faith. He had to think of just the right way to break 
the news. But what would that be? “I love you deeply, but I love 
officers’ school more?” That wasn’t going to go over well. 

And he did love her! He did! It was just that, only a few hours into 
his new life in the wilderness, he knew he hated it. The heat, and the 
worms, and those birds yakking nonstop... 

She was certainly taking a long time with those potatoes. 


Coriolanus glanced out the window. The rain had diminished to a 


sprinkle. 

She hadn’t wanted to go by herself. Too lonely. Her song said that 
she needed, loved, and trusted him, but would she forgive him? Even 
if he deserted her? Billy Taupe had crossed her, and he’d ended up 
dead. He could hear him now... 

“Makes me sick how you’re playing the kids. Poor Lucy Gray. Poor 
lamb.” 

...and see her sinking her teeth into his hand. He thought about 
how coolly she’d killed in the arena. First that frail little Wovey; that 
was a cold-blooded move if he’d ever seen one. Then the calculated 
way she’d taken out Treech, baiting him to attack her, really, so she 
could whip that snake out of her pocket. And she claimed that Reaper 
had rabies, that it was a mercy kill, but who knew? 

No, Lucy Gray was no lamb. She was not made of sugar. She was a 
victor. 

He checked to see that the Peacekeeper’s rifle was loaded, then 
opened the door wide. She was nowhere in sight. He walked down to 
the lake, trying to remember where Clerk Carmine had been digging 
before he brought them the katniss plant. It didn’t matter. The 
swampy area around the lake was deserted, and the bank undisturbed. 

“Lucy Gray?” The only response came from a lone mockingjay on 
a nearby branch, who made an effort to mimic his voice but failed, as 
his words were not particularly musical. “Give it up,” he muttered to 
the thing. “You’re no jabberjay.” 


No question, she was hiding from him. But why? There could only 


be one answer. Because she’d figured it out. All of it. That destroying 
the guns would wash away all physical evidence of his connection to 
the murders. That he no longer wanted to run away. That she was the 
last witness to tie him to the crime. But they’d always had each 
other’s backs, so why would she suddenly think he might harm her? 
Why, when only yesterday, he’d been pure as the driven snow? 

Sejanus. She must have figured out that Sejanus was the third 
person Coriolanus had killed. She wouldn’t have to know anything 
about the stunt with the jabberjays, only that he’d been Sejanus’s 
confidant, and that Sejanus was a rebel, while Coriolanus was a 
defender of the Capitol. Still, to think he’d kill her? He looked down 
at the loaded gun in his hands. Maybe he should’ve left it in the shed. 
It looked bad coming after her armed. As if he was hunting her. But 
he wasn’t really going to kill her. Just talk to her and make sure she 
saw sense. 

Put down the gun, he told himself, but his hands refused to 
cooperate. All she has is a knife. A big knife. The best he could manage 
was to sling the gun onto his back. “Lucy Gray! Are you okay? You’re 
scaring me! Where are you?” 

All she’d have to say was “I understand, I’ll go on alone, like I was 
planning to all along.” But just this morning she’d admitted she didn’t 
think she could make it on her own, that she’d return to the Covey 
after a few days. She knew he wouldn’t believe her. 

“Lucy Gray, please, I just want to talk to you!” he shouted. What 


was her plan here? To hide until he grew tired and went back to the 


base? And then sneak back home tonight? That didn’t work for him. 
Even with the murder weapon gone, she’d still be dangerous. What if 
she went back to District 12 now and the mayor succeeded in getting 
her arrested? What if they interrogated or even tortured her? The 
story would come out. She hadn’t killed anyone. He had. His word 
against hers. Even if they didn’t believe her, his reputation would be 
destroyed. Their romance would be revealed, along with the details of 
how he’d cheated in the Hunger Games. Dean Highbottom might be 
brought in as a character witness. He couldn’t risk it. 

Still no sign of her. She was giving him no choice but to hunt her 
down in the woods. The rain had stopped now, leaving the air humid 
and the earth muddy. He went back to the house and scanned the 
ground until he found the slight imprint of her shoes, then followed 
her tracks until he reached the brush where the woods began again in 
earnest and quietly made his way into the dripping trees. 

Bird chatter filled his ears, and the overcast sky made visibility 
poor. The underbrush concealed her footprints, but somehow he felt 
he was on the right track. Adrenaline sharpened his senses, and he 
noticed a snapped branch here, a scuff mark in the moss there. He felt 
a bit guilty, frightening her this way. What was she doing, quivering 
in the bushes while she tried to suppress her sobs? The idea of life 
without him must be breaking her heart. 

A patch of orange caught his eye, and he smiled. “I don’t want you 
to lose me,” she’d said. And he hadn’t. He pushed through the 


branches and into a small clearing canopied by trees. The orange scarf 


lay across some briars, where it had apparently blown loose and 
snagged as she fled. Oh, well. It confirmed he was on the right track. 
He went to retrieve it — maybe he’d keep it after all — when a faint 
rustle in the leaves pulled him up short. He’d just registered the snake 
when it struck, uncoiling like a spring and digging its teeth into the 
forearm extended toward the scarf. 

“Aa!” he screamed in pain. It released him immediately and 
slithered into the brush before he even had a chance to get a good 
look at it. Panic set in as he stared at the red, arched bite mark on his 
forearm. Panic and disbelief. Lucy Gray had tried to kill him! This was 
no coincidence. The trailing scarf. The poised snake. Maude Ivory had 
said she always knew where to find them. This was a booby trap, and 
he’d walked straight into it! Poor lamb, indeed! He was beginning to 
sympathize with Billy Taupe. 

Coriolanus knew nothing about snakes, other than the rainbow 
ones in the arena. Feet rooted to the ground, heart racing, he expected 
to die on the spot, but while the wound hurt, he was still standing. He 
didn’t know how long he might have, but by all things Snow, she was 
going to pay for this. Should he tie off the arm with a tourniquet? 
Suck out the venom? They hadn’t done survival training yet. Afraid 
his first aid treatments might only spread the poison more swiftly 
through his system, he yanked his sleeve down over his forearm, 
pulled his rifle off his shoulder, and started after her. If he’d felt 
better, he’d have laughed at the irony of how quickly their 


relationship had deteriorated into their own private Hunger Games. 


She wasn’t so easy to track now, and he realized the earlier clues 
had been left to lead him directly to the snake. But she couldn’t be 
that far away. She’d want to know if the thing killed him, or if she 
should form another plan of attack. Maybe she hoped he’d pass out so 
she could cut his throat with the long knife. Trying to quiet his 
panting, he moved deeper into the woods, gently pushing the 
branches back with the nose of his rifle, but it was impossible to 
discern her whereabouts. 

Think, he told himself. Where would she go? The answer hit him 
like a ton of bricks. She would not want to battle him, armed with a 
rifle, when she had only a knife. She’d return to the lake house to get 
a gun herself. Perhaps she’d circled around him and was headed there 
right now. He strained his ears and yes. Yes! He thought he could hear 
someone moving off to his right, retreating to the lake. He started 
running toward the sound and then stopped abruptly. Sure enough, 
having heard him, she was flying through the underbrush, realizing 
what he had realized, no longer caring if he heard her. He estimated 
her to be about ten yards away, lifted the rifle to his shoulder, and 
released a spray of bullets in her direction. A flock of birds squawked 
as they took to the air, and he heard a faint cry. Got you, he thought. 
He crashed through the woods after her, branches and thorns catching 
his clothes and scratching his face, ignoring all of it until he came to 
the spot where he’d guessed her to be. There was no trace of her. No 
matter. She would have to move again, and when she moved, he’d 


find her. 


“Lucy Gray,” he said in his normal voice. “Lucy Gray. It’s not too 
late to work something out.” Of course, it was, but he owed her 
nothing. Certainly not the truth. “Lucy Gray, won’t you talk to me?” 


Her voice surprised him, lifting suddenly and sweetly into the air. 


Are you, are you 

Coming to the tree? 

Wear a necklace of rope, side by side with me. 
Strange things did happen here 

No stranger would it be 


If we met up at midnight in the hanging tree. 


Yes, I get it, he thought. You know about Sejanus. “Necklace of rope” 
and all that. 

He took a step in her direction just as a mockingjay picked up her 
song. Then a second. Then a third. The woods came alive with their 
melody as dozens joined in. He dove through the trees and then 
opened fire on the spot the voice had come from. Had he hit her? He 
couldn’t tell, because the birdsong filled his ears, disorienting him. 
Little black specks swam in his field of vision, and his arm began to 
throb. “Lucy Gray!” he bellowed in frustration. Clever, devious, 
deadly girl. She knew they’d cover for her. He lifted the rifle and 
machine-gunned the trees, trying to wipe out the birds. Many 
fluttered into the sky, but the song had spread, and the woods were 
alive with it. “Lucy Gray! Lucy Gray!” Furious, he turned this way and 


that and finally blasted the woods in a full circle, going around and 


around until his bullets were spent. He collapsed on the ground, dizzy 
and nauseous, as the woods exploded, every bird of every kind 
screaming its head off while the mockingjays continued their 
rendition of “The Hanging Tree.” Nature gone mad. Genes gone bad. 
Chaos. 

He had to get out of there. His arm had begun to swell. He had to 
get back to the base. Forcing himself to his feet, he tramped back to 
the lake. Everything in the house remained as he had left it. At least 
he’d prevented her from getting back. Using a pair of his socks as 
gloves, he wiped off the murder weapon, crammed all the weapons 
back in the burlap bag, hoisted it over his shoulder, and ran to the 
lake. Judging it heavy enough to sink without being weighted down 
with rocks, he plunged into the lake and towed it out into deeper 
water. He submerged the bag and watched it spiral slowly down into 
the gloom. 

An alarming tingling enveloped his arm. A clumsy dog paddle 
carried him back to shore, and he staggered back to the house. What 
of the supplies? Should he drown those as well? No point. Either she 
was dead and the Covey would find them, or she was alive and she 
would hopefully use them to escape. He threw the fish into the fire to 
burn and left, closing the door tightly behind him. 

The rain began again, a real downpour. He expected it would 
wash away any trace of his visit. The guns were gone. The supplies 
were Lucy Gray’s. The only thing that remained were his footprints, 


and those were melting before his eyes. The clouds seemed to be 


infiltrating his brain. He struggled to think. Get back. You must get 
back to base. But where was it? He pulled his father’s compass from 
his pocket, amazed it still worked after the dunking in the lake. 
Crassus Snow was still out there somewhere, still protecting him. 

Coriolanus clung to the compass, a lifeline in the storm, as he 
headed south. He stumbled through the woods, terrified and alone but 
feeling his father’s presence beside him. Crassus might not have 
thought much of him, but he’d have wanted his legacy to live on, and 
perhaps Coriolanus had redeemed himself somewhat today? None of 
it would matter if the venom killed him. He stopped to vomit, wishing 
he’d brought along the jug of water. He vaguely realized that his DNA 
would be on that, too, but who cared? The jug was not a murder 
weapon. It didn’t matter. He was safe. If the Covey found Lucy Gray’s 
body, they wouldn’t report it. They wouldn’t want the attention it 
brought. It might connect them to the rebels or reveal their hideout. If 
there was a body. He could not even confirm he’d hit her. 

Coriolanus made it back. Not to the hanging tree, exactly, but to 
District 12, wandering out of a stretch of trees into a clump of miners’ 
hovels and somehow finding the road. The ground shook with 
thunder, and lightning slashed the sky as he reached the town square. 
He saw no one as he made it to the base and climbed back through 
the fence. He went straight to the clinic, claiming he’d stopped to tie 
his shoe on his way to the gym, when a snake had appeared out of 
nowhere to bite him. 


The doctor nodded. “The rain brings them out.” 


“Does it?” Coriolanus thought his story would have been 
challenged, or at least met with skepticism. 

The doctor did not seem suspicious. “Did you get a look at it?” 

“Not really. It was raining, and it moved fast,” he answered. “Am I 
going to die?” 

“Hardly,” the doctor chuckled. “It wasn’t even venomous. See the 
teeth marks? No fangs. Going to be sore for a few days, though.” 

“Are you sure? I threw up, and I couldn’t think straight,” he said. 

“Well, panic can do that.” She cleaned the wound. “Probably leave 
a scar.” 

Good, thought Coriolanus. It will remind me to be more careful. 

She gave him several shots and a bottle of pills. “Come by 
tomorrow, and we'll check it again.” 

“Tomorrow Im being reassigned to District Two,” replied 
Coriolanus. 

“Visit the clinic there, then,” she said. “Good luck, soldier.” 

Coriolanus went back to his room, shocked to find it was only 
midafternoon. Between the booze and the rain, his bunkmates had 
never even risen. He went to the bathroom and emptied his pockets. 
The lake water had reduced his mother’s rose-scented powder to a 
nasty paste, and he threw the whole thing in the trash. The photos 
stuck together and shredded when he tried to separate them, so they 
went the way of the powder. Only the compass had survived the 
outing. He peeled off his clothes and scrubbed off the last bits of the 


lake. When he’d dressed, he took down his duffel and began to pack, 


returning the compass to his box of personal items and stowing it 
deep in the bag. On reflection, he opened Sejanus’s locker and took 
his box as well. When he got to District 2, he’d mail it to the Plinths 
with a note of condolence. That would be appropriate as Sejanus’s 
best friend. And who knew? Maybe the cookies would keep coming. 

The following morning, after a tearful good-bye from his 
bunkmates, he boarded the hovercraft for District Two. Things 
improved immediately. The plush seat. The attendant. The beverage 
selection. Not luxurious, by any means, but a far cry from the recruit 
train. Comforted by comfort, he leaned his temple against the 
window, hoping to get in a nap. All night, while the rain had 
drummed on the barrack’s roof, he’d wondered where Lucy Gray was. 
Dead in the rain? Curled up by the fire in the lake house? If she’d 
survived, surely she’d abandoned the idea of returning to District 12. 
He dozed off with the melody to “The Hanging Tree” humming in his 
brain, and awoke hours later as the hovercraft touched down. 

“Welcome to the Capitol,” the attendant said. 

Coriolanus’s eyes popped open. “What? No. Did I miss my stop? I 
have to report to District Two.” 

“This craft goes on to Two, but we have orders to drop you here,” 
said the attendant, checking a list. “I’m afraid you need to disembark. 
We have a schedule to keep.” 

He found himself on the tarmac of a small, unfamiliar airport. A 
Peacekeepers’ truck pulled up, and he was ordered into the back. As 


he rattled along, unable to get any information from the driver, dread 


seeped into him. There had been a mistake. Or had there? What if 
they had somehow linked him to the murders? Maybe Lucy Gray had 
returned and accused him, and they needed to question him? Would 
they drag the lake for the weapons? His heart gave a little jump as 
they turned onto Scholars Road and drove past the Academy, quiet 
and still on a summer afternoon. There was the park where they’d 
sometimes hung out at after school. And the bakery with those 
cupcakes he loved. At least he’d been granted one more glimpse of his 
hometown. Nostalgia faded as the truck made a sharp turn and he 
realized they were heading up the drive to the Citadel. 

Inside, the guards waved him right through to the elevator. “She’s 
expecting you in the lab.” 

He held on to the thin hope that “she” meant Dr. Kay, not Dr. 
Gaul, but his old nemesis waved to him from across the lab as he 
stepped off the elevator. Why was he here? Was he going to end up in 
one of her cages? As he crossed to her, he saw her drop a live baby 
mouse into a tank of golden snakes. 

“So the victor returns. Here, hold these.” Dr. Gaul pushed a metal 
bowl filled with squirming, pink rodents into his hands. 

Coriolanus suppressed a gag. “Hello, Dr. Gaul.” 

“T got your letter,” she said. “And your jabberjay. Too bad about 
young Plinth. Although, is it, really? Anyway, I was pleased to see you 
were continuing your studies in Twelve. Developing your worldview.” 

He felt himself pulled right back into the old tutorial with her, as 


if nothing had happened. “Yes, it was eye-opening. I thought about all 


the things we’d discussed. Chaos, control, the contract. The three C’s.” 

“Did you think about the Hunger Games?” she asked. “The day we 
met, Casca asked you what their purpose was, and you gave the stock 
answer. To punish the districts. Would you change that now?” 

Coriolanus remembered the conversation he’d had with Sejanus as 
they’d unpacked his duffel. “Pd elaborate on it. They’re not just to 
punish the districts, they’re part of the eternal war. Each one is its 
own battle. One we can hold in the palm of our hand, instead of 
waging a real war that could get out of our control.” 

“Hm.” She swung a mouse away from a gaping mouth. “You there, 
don’t be greedy.” 

“And they’re a reminder of what we did to each other, what we 
have the potential to do again, because of who we are,” he continued. 

“And who are we, did you determine?” she asked. 

“Creatures who need the Capitol to survive.” He couldn’t help 
getting in a dig. “It’s all pointless, though, you know. The Hunger 
Games. No one in Twelve even watches it. Except for the reaping. We 
didn’t even have a working television on base.” 

“While that could be a problem in the future, it’s a blessing this 
year, given that I’ve had to erase the whole mess,” said Dr. Gaul. “It 
was a mistake getting the students mixed up in it. Especially when 
they started dropping like flies. Presented the Capitol as far too 
vulnerable.” 

“You erased it?” he asked. 


“Every last copy gone, never to be aired again.” She grinned. “I’ve 


a master in the vault, of course, but that’s just for my own 
amusement.” 

He was glad about the erasure. It was just one more way to 
eliminate Lucy Gray from the world. The Capitol would forget her, the 
districts barely knew her, and District 12 had never accepted her as 
one of their own. In a few years, there would be a vague memory that 
a girl had once sung in the arena. And then that would be forgotten, 
too. Good-bye, Lucy Gray, we hardly knew you. 

“Not a total loss. I think we’ll bring Flickerman back next year. 
And your idea about the betting is a keeper,” she said. 

“You need to somehow make the viewing mandatory. No one in 
Twelve will tune in to something that depressing by choice,” he told 
her. “They spend what little free time they have drinking to forget the 
rest of their lives.” 

Dr. Gaul chuckled. “It seems you’ve learned a lot on your summer 
vacation, Mr. Snow.” 

“Vacation?” he said, perplexed. 

“Well, what were you going to do here? Laze around the Capitol, 
combing out your curls? I thought a summer with the Peacekeepers 
would be far more educational.” She took in the confusion on his face. 
“You don’t think I’ve invested all this time in you to hand you off to 
those imbeciles in the districts, do you?” 

“T don’t understand, I was told —” he began. 

She cut him off. “I’ve ordered you an honorable discharge, 


effective immediately. You’re to study under me at the University.” 


“The University? Here in the Capitol?” he said in surprise. 
She dropped one last mouse into the tank. “Classes start 


Thursday.” 


EPILOGUE 


On a brilliant October afternoon halfway into fall term, Snow 
descended the marble steps of the University Science Center, modestly 
ignoring the turning heads. He looked gorgeous in his new suit, 
especially with the return of his curls, and his stint as a Peacekeeper 
had given him a certain cachet that drove his rivals wild. 

He’d just finished a special honors class in military strategy with 
Dr. Gaul, after a morning at the Citadel, where he’d reported for his 
Gamemaker internship. If you wanted to call it that — really the 
others treated him as a full-fledged member of the team. They were 
already working on ideas to engage the districts, as well as the 
Capitol, in next year’s Hunger Games. Snow had been the one to point 
out that, other than the life of two tributes they might not even know, 
the people in the districts had no stake in the Games. A tribute’s win 
needed to be a win for the whole district. They’d come up with the 
idea that everyone in the district would receive a parcel of food if 
their tribute took the crown. And to tempt a better class of tributes to 
possibly volunteer, Snow suggested that the victor should be given a 
house in a special area of town, tentatively called the Victor’s Village, 


which would be the envy of all those people in the hovels. That, and a 


token monetary prize, should go a long way toward bringing in a 
decent crop of performers. 

His fingers stroked his butter-soft leather satchel, a back-to-school 
gift from the Plinths. He still tripped over what to call them. “Ma” was 
easy enough, but it didn’t suit to call Strabo Plinth his father, so he 
used “sir” a lot. It wasn’t as if they’d adopted him; he’d been too old 
at eighteen. Being designated an heir worked better for him anyway. 
He’d never give up the name Snow, not even for a munitions empire. 

It had all happened very naturally. His homecoming. Their grief. 
The merging of the families. Sejanus’s death had totaled the Plinths. 
Strabo had put it simply: “My wife needs something to live for. So do 
I, for that matter. You’ve lost your parents. We’ve lost our son. I was 
thinking perhaps we could work something out.” He’d bought the 
Snows’ apartment so they didn’t have to move, and the Dolittles’ 
below it for himself and Ma. There was talk of renovating, of building 
a spiral staircase and perhaps a private elevator to connect the two, 
but there was no rush. Ma already came by daily to help with the 
Grandma’am, who’d resigned herself to having a new “maid,” and she 
and Tigris got on swimmingly. The Plinths paid for everything now: 
the taxes on the apartment, his tuition, the cook. They gave him a 
generous allowance as well. This was helpful because, although he’d 
intercepted and pocketed the envelope of money he’d sent Tigris from 
District 12, university life was expensive when done right. Strabo 
never questioned his expenditures or nitpicked over a few new 


additions to his wardrobe, and he seemed pleased when Snow asked 


for advice. They were surprisingly compatible. At times, he almost 
forgot old Plinth was district. Almost. 

Tonight would’ve been Sejanus’s nineteenth birthday, and they 
were gathering for a quiet dinner to remember him. Snow had invited 
Festus and Lysistrata to join the party, as they’d liked Sejanus better 
than most of his classmates and could be counted on to say nice 
things. He planned to present the Plinths with the box from Sejanus’s 
locker, but first he had one more thing to do. 

The fresh air on the walk to the Academy left his mind razor 
sharp. He hadn’t bothered to make an appointment, preferring to drop 
in unexpectedly. The students had been let out an hour ago, and his 
footsteps rang in the hallways. Dean Highbottom’s secretary’s desk 
was empty, so he crossed to the dean’s office and tapped on the door. 
Dean Highbottom bid him enter. Between the weight loss and the 
tremor, he looked worse than ever, slumped over his desk. 

“Well, to what do I owe this honor?” he asked. 

“T was hoping to recover my mother’s compact, since you should 
have no further need of it,” Snow replied. 

Dean Highbottom reached into a drawer and slapped the compact 
on the desk. “Is that all?” 

“No.” He removed Sejanus’s box from his satchel. “I’m returning 
Sejanus’s personal effects to his parents tonight. I’m not sure what to 
do with this.” He emptied the contents onto the desk and picked up 
the framed diploma. “I didn’t think you’d want it floating around out 


there. An Academy diploma. Awarded to a traitor.” 


“You’re very conscientious,” said Dean Highbottom. 

“That’s my Peacekeeper training.” Snow loosened the back of the 
frame and slipped out the diploma. Then, as if on impulse, he 
replaced it with a photo of the Plinth family. “I think his parents will 
prefer this anyway.” They both stared at the remains of Sejanus’s life. 
Then he swept the three medicine bottles into Dean Highbottom’s 
trash can. “The fewer bad memories, the better.” 

Dean Highbottom eyed him. “So, you grew a heart in the 
districts?” 

“Not in the districts. In the Hunger Games,” Snow corrected him. 
“T have you to thank for that. After all, you’re responsible for them.” 

“Oh, I think half the credit for that goes to your father,” said the 
dean. 

Snow frowned. “How do you mean? I thought the Hunger Games 
were your idea. Something you came up with at the University?” 

“For Dr. Gaul’s class. Which I was failing, since my loathing of her 
made participation impossible. We paired off for the final project, so I 
was with my best friend — Crassus, of course. The assignment was to 
create a punishment for one’s enemies so extreme that they would 
never be allowed to forget how they had wronged you. It was like a 
puzzle, which I excel at, and like all good creations, absurdly simple 
at its core. The Hunger Games. The evilest impulse, cleverly packaged 
into a sporting event. An entertainment. I was drunk and your father 
got me drunker still, playing on my vanity as I fleshed the thing out, 


assuring me it was just a private joke. The next morning, I awoke, 


horrified by what I’d made, meaning to rip it to shreds, but it was too 
late. Without my permission, your father had given it to Dr. Gaul. He 
wanted the grade, you see. I never forgave him.” 

“He’s dead,” said Snow. 

“But she isn’t,” Dean Highbottom shot back. “It was never meant 
to be anything more than theoretical. And who but the vilest monster 
would stage it? After the war, she pulled my proposal out, and me 
with it, introducing me to Panem as the architect of the Hunger 
Games. That night, I tried morphling for the first time. I thought the 
thing would die out, it was so ghastly. It didn’t. Dr. Gaul took it and 
ran, and she has dragged me along with it for the last ten years.” 

“It certainly supports her view of humanity,” said Snow. 
“Especially using the children.” 

“And why is that?” asked Dean Highbottom. 

“Because we credit them with innocence. And if even the most 
innocent among us turn to killers in the Hunger Games, what does 
that say? That our essential nature is violent,” Snow explained. 

“Self-destructive,” Dean Highbottom murmured. 

Snow remembered Pluribus’s account of his father’s falling out 
with Dean Highbottom and quoted the letter. “Like moths to a flame.” 
The dean’s eyes narrowed, but Snow only smiled and said, “But, of 
course, you’re testing me. You know her far better than I do.” 

“Pm not so sure.” Dean Highbottom traced the silver rose on the 
compact with a finger. “So, what did she say when you told her you 


were leaving?” 


“Dr. Gaul?” Snow asked. 

“Your little songbird,” the dean said. “When you left Twelve. Was 
she sad to see you go?” 

“T expect it made us both a little sad.” Snow pocketed the compact 
and gathered Sejanus’s things. “Td better go. We have a new living 
room set being delivered, and I promised my cousin I’d be there to 
oversee the movers.” 

“Off you go, then,” said Dean Highbottom. “Back to the 
penthouse.” 

Snow did not care to talk about Lucy Gray with anyone, 
particularly not Dean Highbottom. Smiley had sent him a letter at the 
Plinths’ old address, mentioning her disappearance. Everybody 
thought the mayor had killed her, but they couldn’t prove it. As to the 
Covey, a new commander had replaced Hoff, and his first move had 
been to outlaw shows at the Hob, because music caused trouble. 

Yes, thought Snow. It certainly does. 

Lucy Gray’s fate was a mystery, then, just like the little girl who 
shared her name in that maddening song. Was she alive, dead, a ghost 
who haunted the wilderness? Perhaps no one would ever really know. 
No matter — snow had been the ruination of them both. Poor Lucy 


Gray. Poor ghost girl singing away with her birds. 


Are you, are you 
Coming to the tree 


Where I told you to run, so we’d both be free? 


She could fly around District 12 all she liked, but she and her 
mockingjays could never harm him again. 

Sometimes he would remember a moment of sweetness and almost 
wish things had ended differently. But it would never have worked 
out between them, even if he’d stayed. They were simply too 
different. And he didn’t like love, the way it had made him feel stupid 
and vulnerable. If he ever married, he’d choose someone incapable of 
swaying his heart. Someone he hated, even, so they could never 
manipulate him the way Lucy Gray had. Never make him feel jealous. 
Or weak. Livia Cardew would be perfect. He imagined the two of 
them, the president and his first lady, presiding over the Hunger 
Games a few years from now. He’d continue the Games, of course, 
when he ruled Panem. People would call him a tyrant, ironfisted and 
cruel. But at least he would ensure survival for survival’s sake, giving 
them a chance to evolve. What else could humanity hope for? Really, 
it should thank him. 

He passed Pluribus’s nightclub and allowed himself a small smile. 
A person could get rat poison at any number of places, but he’d 
surreptiously scooped up a pinch of it from the back alley last week 
and taken it home. Itd been tricky getting it into the morphling 
bottle, especially using gloves, but eventually he’d squeezed what he 
judged to be a sufficient dose through the opening. He’d taken the 
precaution of making sure the bottle was wiped clean. There was 
nothing to make Dean Highbottom suspicious of it when he pulled it 


from the trash and slipped it into his pocket. Nothing when he 


unscrewed the dropper and dripped the morphling onto his tongue. 
Although he couldn’t help hoping that, as the dean drew his final 
breath, he’d realize what so many others had realized when they’d 
challenged him. What all of Panem would know one day. What was 
inevitable. 

Snow lands on top. 


THE END 


< 


When I wake up, the other side of the bed is cold. My fingers 
stretch out, seeking Prim’s warmth but finding only the rough canvas 
cover of the mattress. She must have had bad dreams and climbed in 
with our mother. Of course, she did. This is the day of the reaping. 

I prop myself up on one elbow. There’s enough light in the 
bedroom to see them. My little sister, Prim, curled up on her side, 
cocooned in my mother’s body, their cheeks pressed together. In 
sleep, my mother looks younger, still worn but not so beaten-down. 
Prim’s face is as fresh as a raindrop, as lovely as the primrose for 
which she was named. My mother was very beautiful once, too. Or so 
they tell me. 

Sitting at Prim’s knees, guarding her, is the world’s ugliest cat. 
Mashed-in nose, half of one ear missing, eyes the color of rotting 
squash. Prim named him Buttercup, insisting that his muddy yellow 
coat matched the bright flower. He hates me. Or at least distrusts me. 
Even though it was years ago, I think he still remembers how I tried to 
drown him in a bucket when Prim brought him home. Scrawny kitten, 
belly swollen with worms, crawling with fleas. The last thing I needed 
was another mouth to feed. But Prim begged so hard, cried even, I 
had to let him stay. It turned out okay. My mother got rid of the 
vermin and he’s a born mouser. Even catches the occasional rat. 
Sometimes, when I clean a kill, I feed Buttercup the entrails. He has 
stopped hissing at me. 

Entrails. No hissing. This is the closest we will ever come to love. 

I swing my legs off the bed and slide into my hunting boots. 
Supple leather that has molded to my feet. I pull on trousers, a shirt, 
tuck my long dark braid up into a cap, and grab my forage bag. On 
the table, under a wooden bowl to protect it from hungry rats and cats 
alike, sits a perfect little goat cheese wrapped in basil leaves. Prim’s 
gift to me on reaping day. I put the cheese carefully in my pocket as I 
slip outside. 

Our part of District 12, nicknamed the Seam, is usually crawling 
with coal miners heading out to the morning shift at this hour. Men 
and women with hunched shoulders, swollen knuckles, many who 
have long since stopped trying to scrub the coal dust out of their 
broken nails, the lines of their sunken faces. But today the black 
cinder streets are empty. Shutters on the squat gray houses are closed. 
The reaping isn’t until two. May as well sleep in. If you can. 

Our house is almost at the edge of the Seam. I only have to pass a 
few gates to reach the scruffy field called the Meadow. Separating the 
Meadow from the woods, in fact enclosing all of District 12, is a high 


chain-link fence topped with barbed-wire loops. In theory, it’s 


supposed to be electrified twenty-four hours a day as a deterrent to 
the predators that live in the woods — packs of wild dogs, lone 
cougars, bears — that used to threaten our streets. But since we’re 
lucky to get two or three hours of electricity in the evenings, it’s 
usually safe to touch. Even so, I always take a moment to listen 
carefully for the hum that means the fence is live. Right now, it’s 
silent as a stone. Concealed by a clump of bushes, I flatten out on my 
belly and slide under a two-foot stretch that’s been loose for years. 
There are several other weak spots in the fence, but this one is so 
close to home I almost always enter the woods here. 

As soon as I’m in the trees, I retrieve a bow and sheath of arrows 
from a hollow log. Electrified or not, the fence has been successful at 
keeping the flesh-eaters out of District 12. Inside the woods they roam 
freely, and there are added concerns like venomous snakes, rabid 
animals, and no real paths to follow. But there’s also food if you know 
how to find it. My father knew and he taught me some before he was 
blown to bits in a mine explosion. There was nothing even to bury. I 
was eleven then. Five years later, I still wake up screaming for him to 
run. 

Even though trespassing in the woods is illegal and poaching 
carries the severest of penalties, more people would risk it if they had 
weapons. But most are not bold enough to venture out with just a 
knife. My bow is a rarity, crafted by my father along with a few others 
that I keep well hidden in the woods, carefully wrapped in waterproof 


covers. My father could have made good money selling them, but if 


the officials found out he would have been publicly executed for 
inciting a rebellion. Most of the Peacekeepers turn a blind eye to the 
few of us who hunt because they’re as hungry for fresh meat as 
anybody is. In fact, they’re among our best customers. But the idea 
that someone might be arming the Seam would never have been 
allowed. 

In the fall, a few brave souls sneak into the woods to harvest 
apples. But always in sight of the Meadow. Always close enough to 
run back to the safety of District 12 if trouble arises. “District Twelve. 
Where you can starve to death in safety,” I mutter. Then I glance 
quickly over my shoulder. Even here, even in the middle of nowhere, 
you worry someone might overhear you. 

When I was younger, I scared my mother to death, the things I 
would blurt out about District 12, about the people who rule our 
country, Panem, from the far-off city called the Capitol. Eventually I 
understood this would only lead us to more trouble. So I learned to 
hold my tongue and to turn my features into an indifferent mask so 
that no one could ever read my thoughts. Do my work quietly in 
school. Make only polite small talk in the public market. Discuss little 
more than trades in the Hob, which is the black market where I make 
most of my money. Even at home, where I am less pleasant, I avoid 
discussing tricky topics. Like the reaping, or food shortages, or the 
Hunger Games. Prim might begin to repeat my words and then where 
would we be? 


In the woods waits the only person with whom I can be myself. 


Gale. I can feel the muscles in my face relaxing, my pace quickening 
as I climb the hills to our place, a rock ledge overlooking a valley. A 
thicket of berry bushes protects it from unwanted eyes. The sight of 
him waiting there brings on a smile. Gale says I never smile except in 
the woods. 

“Hey, Catnip,” says Gale. My real name is Katniss, but when I first 
told him, I had barely whispered it. So he thought I’d said Catnip. 
Then when this crazy lynx started following me around the woods 
looking for handouts, it became his official nickname for me. I finally 
had to kill the lynx because he scared off game. I almost regretted it 
because he wasn’t bad company. But I got a decent price for his pelt. 

“Look what I shot.” Gale holds up a loaf of bread with an arrow 
stuck in it, and I laugh. It’s real bakery bread, not the flat, dense 
loaves we make from our grain rations. I take it in my hands, pull out 
the arrow, and hold the puncture in the crust to my nose, inhaling the 
fragrance that makes my mouth flood with saliva. Fine bread like this 
is for special occasions. 

“Mm, still warm,” I say. He must have been at the bakery at the 
crack of dawn to trade for it. “What did it cost you?” 

“Just a squirrel. Think the old man was feeling sentimental this 
morning,” says Gale. “Even wished me luck.” 

“Well, we all feel a little closer today, don’t we?” I say, not even 
bothering to roll my eyes. “Prim left us a cheese.” I pull it out. 

His expression brightens at the treat. “Thank you, Prim. We’ll have 


a real feast.” Suddenly he falls into a Capitol accent as he mimics Effie 


Trinket, the maniacally upbeat woman who arrives once a year to 
read out the names at the reaping. “I almost forgot! Happy Hunger 
Games!” He plucks a few blackberries from the bushes around us. 
“And may the odds —” He tosses a berry in a high arc toward me. 

I catch it in my mouth and break the delicate skin with my teeth. 


cc 


The sweet tartness explodes across my tongue. “— be ever in your 
favor!” I finish with equal verve. We have to joke about it because the 
alternative is to be scared out of your wits. Besides, the Capitol accent 
is so affected, almost anything sounds funny in it. 

I watch as Gale pulls out his knife and slices the bread. He could 
be my brother. Straight black hair, olive skin, we even have the same 
gray eyes. But we’re not related, at least not closely. Most of the 
families who work the mines resemble one another this way. 

That’s why my mother and Prim, with their light hair and blue 
eyes, always look out of place. They are. My mother’s parents were 
part of the small merchant class that caters to officials, Peacekeepers, 
and the occasional Seam customer. They ran an apothecary shop in 
the nicer part of District 12. Since almost no one can afford doctors, 
apothecaries are our healers. My father got to know my mother 
because on his hunts he would sometimes collect medicinal herbs and 
sell them to her shop to be brewed into remedies. She must have 
really loved him to leave her home for the Seam. I try to remember 
that when all I can see is the woman who sat by, blank and 
unreachable, while her children turned to skin and bones. I try to 


forgive her for my father’s sake. But to be honest, I’m not the 


forgiving type. 

Gale spreads the bread slices with the soft goat cheese, carefully 
placing a basil leaf on each while I strip the bushes of their berries. 
We settle back in a nook in the rocks. From this place, we are invisible 
but have a clear view of the valley, which is teeming with summer 
life, greens to gather, roots to dig, fish iridescent in the sunlight. The 
day is glorious, with a blue sky and soft breeze. The food’s wonderful, 
with the cheese seeping into the warm bread and the berries bursting 
in our mouths. Everything would be perfect if this really was a 
holiday, if all the day off meant was roaming the mountains with 
Gale, hunting for tonight’s supper. But instead we have to be standing 
in the square at two o’clock waiting for the names to be called out. 

“We could do it, you know,” Gale says quietly. 

“What?” I ask. 

“Leave the district. Run off. Live in the woods. You and I, we 
could make it,” says Gale. 

I don’t know how to respond. The idea is so preposterous. 

“If we didn’t have so many kids,” he adds quickly. 

They’re not our kids, of course. But they might as well be. Gale’s 
two little brothers and a sister. Prim. And you may as well throw in 
our mothers, too, because how would they live without us? Who 
would fill those mouths that are always asking for more? With both of 
us hunting daily, there are still nights when game has to be swapped 
for lard or shoelaces or wool, still nights when we go to bed with our 


stomachs growling. 


“T never want to have kids,” I say. 

“T might. If I didn’t live here,” says Gale. 

“But you do,” I say, irritated. 

“Forget it,” he snaps back. 

The conversation feels all wrong. Leave? How could I leave Prim, 
who is the only person in the world I’m certain I love? And Gale is 
devoted to his family. We can’t leave, so why bother talking about it? 
And even if we did... even if we did . . . where did this stuff about 
having kids come from? There’s never been anything romantic 
between Gale and me. When we met, I was a skinny twelve-year-old, 
and although he was only two years older, he already looked like a 
man. It took a long time for us to even become friends, to stop 
haggling over every trade and begin helping each other out. 

Besides, if he wants kids, Gale won’t have any trouble finding a 
wife. He’s good-looking, he’s strong enough to handle the work in the 
mines, and he can hunt. You can tell by the way the girls whisper 
about him when he walks by in school that they want him. It makes 
me jealous but not for the reason people would think. Good hunting 
partners are hard to find. 

“What do you want to do?” I ask. We can hunt, fish, or gather. 

“Let’s fish at the lake. We can leave our poles and gather in the 
woods. Get something nice for tonight,” he says. 

Tonight. After the reaping, everyone is supposed to celebrate. And 
a lot of people do, out of relief that their children have been spared 


for another year. But at least two families will pull their shutters, lock 


their doors, and try to figure out how they will survive the painful 
weeks to come. 

We make out well. The predators ignore us on a day when easier, 
tastier prey abounds. By late morning, we have a dozen fish, a bag of 
greens and, best of all, a gallon of strawberries. I found the patch a 
few years ago, but Gale had the idea to string mesh nets around it to 
keep out the animals. 

On the way home, we swing by the Hob, the black market that 
operates in an abandoned warehouse that once held coal. When they 
came up with a more efficient system that transported the coal 
directly from the mines to the trains, the Hob gradually took over the 
space. Most businesses are closed by this time on reaping day, but the 
black market’s still fairly busy. We easily trade six of the fish for good 
bread, the other two for salt. Greasy Sae, the bony old woman who 
sells bowls of hot soup from a large kettle, takes half the greens off 
our hands in exchange for a couple of chunks of paraffin. We might do 
a tad better elsewhere, but we make an effort to keep on good terms 
with Greasy Sae. She’s the only one who can consistently be counted 
on to buy wild dog. We don’t hunt them on purpose, but if you’re 
attacked and you take out a dog or two, well, meat is meat. “Once it’s 
in the soup, Ill call it beef,” Greasy Sae says with a wink. No one in 
the Seam would turn up their nose at a good leg of wild dog, but the 
Peacekeepers who come to the Hob can afford to be a little choosier. 

When we finish our business at the market, we go to the back door 


of the mayor’s house to sell half the strawberries, knowing he has a 


particular fondness for them and can afford our price. The mayor’s 
daughter, Madge, opens the door. She’s in my year at school. Being 
the mayor’s daughter, you’d expect her to be a snob, but she’s all 
right. She just keeps to herself. Like me. Since neither of us really has 
a group of friends, we seem to end up together a lot at school. Eating 
lunch, sitting next to each other at assemblies, partnering for sports 
activities. We rarely talk, which suits us both just fine. 

Today her drab school outfit has been replaced by an expensive 
white dress, and her blonde hair is done up with a pink ribbon. 
Reaping clothes. 

“Pretty dress,” says Gale. 

Madge shoots him a look, trying to see if it’s a genuine 
compliment or if he’s just being ironic. It is a pretty dress, but she 
would never be wearing it ordinarily. She presses her lips together 
and then smiles. “Well, if I end up going to the Capitol, I want to look 
nice, don’t I?” 

Now it’s Gale’s turn to be confused. Does she mean it? Or is she 
messing with him? I’m guessing the second. 

“You won’t be going to the Capitol,” says Gale coolly. His eyes 
land on a small, circular pin that adorns her dress. Real gold. 
Beautifully crafted. It could keep a family in bread for months. “What 
can you have? Five entries? I had six when I was just twelve years 
old.” 

“That’s not her fault,” I say. 


“No, it’s no one’s fault. Just the way it is,” says Gale. 


Madge’s face has become closed off. She puts the money for the 
berries in my hand. “Good luck, Katniss.” 

“You, too,” I say, and the door closes. 

We walk toward the Seam in silence. I don’t like that Gale took a 
dig at Madge, but he’s right, of course. The reaping system is unfair, 
with the poor getting the worst of it. You become eligible for the 
reaping the day you turn twelve. That year, your name is entered 
once. At thirteen, twice. And so on and so on until you reach the age 
of eighteen, the final year of eligibility, when your name goes into the 
pool seven times. That’s true for every citizen in all twelve districts in 
the entire country of Panem. 

But here’s the catch. Say you are poor and starving as we were. 
You can opt to add your name more times in exchange for tesserae. 
Each tessera is worth a meager year’s supply of grain and oil for one 
person. You may do this for each of your family members as well. So, 
at the age of twelve, I had my name entered four times. Once, because 
I had to, and three times for tesserae for grain and oil for myself, 
Prim, and my mother. In fact, every year I have needed to do this. 
And the entries are cumulative. So now, at the age of sixteen, my 
name will be in the reaping twenty times. Gale, who is eighteen and 
has been either helping or single-handedly feeding a family of five for 
seven years, will have his name in forty-two times. 

You can see why someone like Madge, who has never been at risk 
of needing a tessera, can set him off. The chance of her name being 


drawn is very slim compared to those of us who live in the Seam. Not 


impossible, but slim. And even though the rules were set up by the 
Capitol, not the districts, certainly not Madge’s family, it’s hard not to 
resent those who don’t have to sign up for tesserae. 

Gale knows his anger at Madge is misdirected. On other days, deep 
in the woods, I’ve listened to him rant about how the tesserae are just 
another tool to cause misery in our district. A way to plant hatred 
between the starving workers of the Seam and those who can 
generally count on supper and thereby ensure we will never trust one 
another. “It’s to the Capitol’s advantage to have us divided among 
ourselves,” he might say if there were no ears to hear but mine. If it 
wasn’t reaping day. If a girl with a gold pin and no tesserae had not 
made what I’m sure she thought was a harmless comment. 

As we walk, I glance over at Gale’s face, still smoldering 
underneath his stony expression. His rages seem pointless to me, 
although I never say so. It’s not that I don’t agree with him. I do. But 
what good is yelling about the Capitol in the middle of the woods? It 
doesn’t change anything. It doesn’t make things fair. It doesn’t fill our 
stomachs. In fact, it scares off the nearby game. I let him yell though. 
Better he does it in the woods than in the district. 

Gale and I divide our spoils, leaving two fish, a couple of loaves of 
good bread, greens, a quart of strawberries, salt, paraffin, and a bit of 
money for each. 

“See you in the square,” I say. 

“Wear something pretty,” he says flatly. 


At home, I find my mother and sister are ready to go. My mother 


wears a fine dress from her apothecary days. Prim is in my first 
reaping outfit, a skirt and ruffled blouse. It’s a bit big on her, but my 
mother has made it stay with pins. Even so, she’s having trouble 
keeping the blouse tucked in at the back. 

A tub of warm water waits for me. I scrub off the dirt and sweat 
from the woods and even wash my hair. To my surprise, my mother 
has laid out one of her own lovely dresses for me. A soft blue thing 
with matching shoes. 

“Are you sure?” I ask. I’m trying to get past rejecting offers of help 
from her. For a while, I was so angry, I wouldn’t allow her to do 
anything for me. And this is something special. Her clothes from her 
past are very precious to her. 

“Of course. Let’s put your hair up, too,” she says. I let her towel- 
dry it and braid it up on my head. I can hardly recognize myself in the 
cracked mirror that leans against the wall. 

“You look beautiful,” says Prim in a hushed voice. 

“And nothing like myself,” I say. I hug her, because I know these 
next few hours will be terrible for her. Her first reaping. She’s about 
as safe as you can get, since she’s only entered once. I wouldn’t let her 
take out any tesserae. But she’s worried about me. That the 
unthinkable might happen. 

I protect Prim in every way I can, but I’m powerless against the 
reaping. The anguish I always feel when she’s in pain wells up in my 
chest and threatens to register on my face. I notice her blouse has 


pulled out of her skirt in the back again and force myself to stay calm. 


“Tuck your tail in, little duck,” I say, smoothing the blouse back in 
place. 

Prim giggles and gives me a small “Quack.” 

“Quack yourself,” I say with a light laugh. The kind only Prim can 
draw out of me. “Come on, let’s eat,” I say and plant a quick kiss on 
the top of her head. 

The fish and greens are already cooking in a stew, but that will be 
for supper. We decide to save the strawberries and bakery bread for 
this evening’s meal, to make it special we say. Instead we drink milk 
from Prim’s goat, Lady, and eat the rough bread made from the 
tessera grain, although no one has much appetite anyway. 

At one o’clock, we head for the square. Attendance is mandatory 
unless you are on death’s door. This evening, officials will come 
around and check to see if this is the case. If not, you’ll be imprisoned. 

It’s too bad, really, that they hold the reaping in the square — one 
of the few places in District 12 that can be pleasant. The square’s 
surrounded by shops, and on public market days, especially if there’s 
good weather, it has a holiday feel to it. But today, despite the bright 
banners hanging on the buildings, there’s an air of grimness. The 
camera crews, perched like buzzards on rooftops, only add to the 
effect. 

People file in silently and sign in. The reaping is a good 
opportunity for the Capitol to keep tabs on the population as well. 
Twelve- through eighteen-year-olds are herded into roped areas 


marked off by ages, the oldest in the front, the young ones, like Prim, 


toward the back. Family members line up around the perimeter, 
holding tightly to one another’s hands. But there are others, too, who 
have no one they love at stake, or who no longer care, who slip 
among the crowd, taking bets on the two kids whose names will be 
drawn. Odds are given on their ages, whether they’re Seam or 
merchant, if they will break down and weep. Most refuse dealing with 
the racketeers but carefully, carefully. These same people tend to be 
informers, and who hasn’t broken the law? I could be shot on a daily 
basis for hunting, but the appetites of those in charge protect me. Not 
everyone can claim the same. 

Anyway, Gale and I agree that if we have to choose between dying 
of hunger and a bullet in the head, the bullet would be much quicker. 

The space gets tighter, more claustrophobic as people arrive. The 
square’s quite large, but not enough to hold District 12’s population of 
about eight thousand. Latecomers are directed to the adjacent streets, 
where they can watch the event on screens as it’s televised live by the 
state. 

I find myself standing in a clump of sixteens from the Seam. We all 
exchange terse nods then focus our attention on the temporary stage 
that is set up before the Justice Building. It holds three chairs, a 
podium, and two large glass balls, one for the boys and one for the 
girls. I stare at the paper slips in the girls’ ball. Twenty of them have 
Katniss Everdeen written on them in careful handwriting. 

Two of the three chairs fill with Madge’s father, Mayor Undersee, 


who’s a tall, balding man, and Effie Trinket, District 12’s escort, fresh 


from the Capitol with her scary white grin, pinkish hair, and spring 
green suit. They murmur to each other and then look with concern at 
the empty seat. 

Just as the town clock strikes two, the mayor steps up to the 
podium and begins to read. It’s the same story every year. He tells of 
the history of Panem, the country that rose up out of the ashes of a 
place that was once called North America. He lists the disasters, the 
droughts, the storms, the fires, the encroaching seas that swallowed 
up so much of the land, the brutal war for what little sustenance 
remained. The result was Panem, a shining Capitol ringed by thirteen 
districts, which brought peace and prosperity to its citizens. Then 
came the Dark Days, the uprising of the districts against the Capitol. 
Twelve were defeated, the thirteenth obliterated. The Treaty of 
Treason gave us the new laws to guarantee peace and, as our yearly 
reminder that the Dark Days must never be repeated, it gave us the 
Hunger Games. 

The rules of the Hunger Games are simple. In punishment for the 
uprising, each of the twelve districts must provide one girl and one 
boy, called tributes, to participate. The twenty-four tributes will be 
imprisoned in a vast outdoor arena that could hold anything from a 
burning desert to a frozen wasteland. Over a period of several weeks, 
the competitors must fight to the death. The last tribute standing 
wins. 

Taking the kids from our districts, forcing them to kill one another 


while we watch — this is the Capitol’s way of reminding us how 


totally we are at their mercy. How little chance we would stand of 
surviving another rebellion. Whatever words they use, the real 
message is clear. “Look how we take your children and sacrifice them 
and there’s nothing you can do. If you lift a finger, we will destroy 
every last one of you. Just as we did in District Thirteen.” 

To make it humiliating as well as torturous, the Capitol requires us 
to treat the Hunger Games as a festivity, a sporting event pitting every 
district against the others. The last tribute alive receives a life of ease 
back home, and their district will be showered with prizes, largely 
consisting of food. All year, the Capitol will show the winning district 
gifts of grain and oil and even delicacies like sugar while the rest of us 
battle starvation. 





“It is both a time for repentance and a time for thanks,” intones 
the mayor. 

Then he reads the list of past District 12 victors. In seventy-four 
years, we have had exactly two. Only one is still alive. Haymitch 
Abernathy, a paunchy, middle-aged man, who at this moment appears 
hollering something unintelligible, staggers onto the stage, and falls 
into the third chair. He’s drunk. Very. The crowd responds with its 
token applause, but he’s confused and tries to give Effie Trinket a big 
hug, which she barely manages to fend off. 

The mayor looks distressed. Since all of this is being televised, 
right now District 12 is the laughingstock of Panem, and he knows it. 
He quickly tries to pull the attention back to the reaping by 


introducing Effie Trinket. 


Bright and bubbly as ever, Effie Trinket trots to the podium and 
gives her signature, “Happy Hunger Games! And may the odds be ever 
in your favor!” Her pink hair must be a wig because her curls have 
shifted slightly off-center since her encounter with Haymitch. She 
goes on a bit about what an honor it is to be here, although everyone 
knows she’s just aching to get bumped up to a better district where 
they have proper victors, not drunks who molest you in front of the 
entire nation. 

Through the crowd, I spot Gale looking back at me with a ghost of 
a smile. As reapings go, this one at least has a slight entertainment 
factor. But suddenly I am thinking of Gale and his forty-two names in 
that big glass ball and how the odds are not in his favor. Not 
compared to a lot of the boys. And maybe he’s thinking the same 
thing about me because his face darkens and he turns away. “But 
there are still thousands of slips,” I wish I could whisper to him. 

It’s time for the drawing. Effie Trinket says as she always does, 
“Ladies first!” and crosses to the glass ball with the girls’ names. She 
reaches in, digs her hand deep into the ball, and pulls out a slip of 
paper. The crowd draws in a collective breath and then you can hear 
a pin drop, and I’m feeling nauseous and so desperately hoping that 
it’s not me, that it’s not me, that it’s not me. 

Effie Trinket crosses back to the podium, smoothes the slip of 
paper, and reads out the name in a clear voice. And it’s not me. 


It’s Primrose Everdeen. 